Good afternoon. It’s nice to see everyone in person for the first time in a couple years. Before I go into the details of today’s meeting, I’d like to take this opportunity to speak directly to the American people. Inflation is much too high, and we understand the hardship it is causing, and we’re moving expeditiously to bring it back down. We have both the tools we need and the resolve that it will take to restore price stability on behalf of American families and businesses. The economy and the country have been through a lot over the past two years and have proved resilient. It is essential that we bring inflation down if we are to have a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. From the standpoint of our Congressional mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability, the current picture is plain to see: The labor market is extremely tight, and inflation is much too high. Against this backdrop, today the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ½ percentage point and anticipates that ongoing increases in the target rate for the federal funds rate will be appropriate. In addition, we are beginning the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet. I’ll have more to say about today’s monetary policy actions after briefly reviewing economic developments. After expanding at a robust 5½ percent pace last year, overall economic activity edged down in the first quarter. Underlying momentum remains strong, however, as the decline largely reflected swings in inventories and net exports two volatile categories whose movements last quarter likely carry little signal for future growth. Indeed, household spending and business fixed investment continued to expand briskly. The labor market has continued to strengthen and is extremely tight. Over the first three months of the year, employment rose by nearly 1.7 million jobs. In March, the unemployment rate hit a post pandemic, and near five decade, low of 3.6 percent. Improvements in labor market conditions have been widespread, including for workers at the lower end of the wage distribution as well as for African Americans and Hispanics. Labor demand is very strong, and, while labor force participation has increased somewhat, labor supply remains subdued. Employers are having difficulties filling job openings, and wages are rising at the fastest pace in many years. Inflation remains well above our longer run goal of 2 percent. Over the 12 months ending in March, total PCE prices rose 6.6 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 5.2 percent. Aggregate demand is strong, and bottlenecks and supply constraints are limiting how quickly production can respond. Disruptions to supply have been larger, and longer lasting, than anticipated, and price pressures have spread to a broader range of goods and services. The surge in prices of crude oil and other commodities that resulted from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is creating additional upward pressure on inflation. And COVID related lockdowns in China are likely to further exacerbate supply chain disruptions as well. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is causing tremendous loss and hardship, and our thoughts and sympathies are with the people of Ukraine. Our job is to consider the implications for the

Thank you. So you’re right 3.6 percent unemployment is just about as low as it’s been in 50 years. And I would say that I expect, and Committee members generally expect, that we’ll get some additional participation. So people will be coming back into the labor force. We’ve seen that particularly among prime age people. And that will, of course, tend to hold the unemployment rate up a little bit. I would also expect, though, that job creation will slow. Job creation has been, you know, more than half a million per month in recent months very, very strong, particularly for this stage of the economy. And so we think  with fiscal policy less supportive, with monetary policy less supportive, we think that job creation will slow as well. So it is certainly possible that the unemployment would go down further. But so I would expect those to be relatively limited because of the additional supply and also just the slowing in job creation. Implications for inflation really, the wages matter a fair amount for companies, particularly in the service sector. Wages are running high, the highest they’ve run in quite some time. And they are one good example, or good illustration, really, of how tight the labor market really is, the fact that wages are running at the highest level in many decades. And that’s because of an imbalance between supply and demand in the labor market. So we think through our policies through further healing in the labor market, higher rates, for example, of vacancy filling and things like that, and more people coming back in we’d like to think that supply and demand will come back into balance and that, therefore, wage inflation will moderate to still high levels of wage increases, but ones that are more consistent with 2 percent inflation. That’s our expectation. Your third question was?

So I guess I would say it this way: There’s a path. There’s a path by which we would be able to have demand moderate in the labor market and therefore have vacancies come down without unemployment going up, because vacancies are at such an extraordinarily high level. There’re 1.9 vacancies for every unemployed person, 11.5 million vacancies, 6 million unemployed people. So we haven’t been in that place on the vacancy, sort of the vacancy/unemployed curve, the Beveridge curve. We haven’t been at that sort of level of a ratio in the modern era. So, in principle, it seems as though by moderating demand, we could see vacancies come down and, as a result and they could come down fairly significantly and, I think, put supply and demand at least closer together than they are. And that would give us a chance to get inflation down, get wages down, and then get inflation down without having to slow the economy and have a recession and have unemployment rise materially. So there’s a path to that. Now, I would say, I think we have a good chance to have a soft or softish landing or outcome, if you will. And I’ll give you a couple of reasons for that. One is, households and businesses are in very strong financial shape. You’re looking at, you know, excess savings on balance sheets excess in the sense that they’re substantially larger than the prior trend. Businesses are in good financial shape. The labor market is, as I mentioned, very, very strong. And so it doesn’t seem to be anywhere close to a downturn. Therefore, the economy is strong and is well positioned to handle tighter monetary policy. So, but I’ll say, I do expect that this will be very challenging; it’s not going to be easy. And it may well depend, of course, on events that are not under our control. But our job is to use our tools to try to achieve that outcome, and that’s what we’re going to do.

Sure. So a 75 basis point increase is not something the Committee is actively considering. What we are doing is, we raised [the funds rate by] 50 basis points today. And we’ve said that, again, assuming that economic and financial conditions evolve in ways that are consistent with our expectations, there’s a broad sense on the Committee that additional 50  basis point increases should be on the table for the next couple of meetings. So we’re going to make those decisions at the meetings, of course, and we’ll be paying close attention to the incoming data and the evolving outlook as well as to financial conditions. And, finally, of course, we will be communicating to the public about what our expectations will be as they evolve. So the test is really just as I laid it out economic and financial conditions evolving broadly in line with expectations. And, you know, I think expectations are that we’ll start to see inflation, you know, flattening out and not necessarily declining yet, but we’ll see more evidence. We’ve seen some evidence that core PCE inflation is perhaps either reaching a peak or flattening out. We’ll want to know more than just some evidence. We’ll want to really feel like we’re making some progress there. And we’re going to make these decisions, and there’ll be a lot more information. I just think we want to see that information as we get there. It’s a very difficult environment to try to give forward guidance 60, 90 days in advance. There are just so many things that can happen in the economy and around the world. So, you know, we’re leaving ourselves room to look at the data and make a decision as we get there.

I don’t think the one month is no. No. One month’s reading doesn’t tell us much. You know, we‘d want to see evidence that inflation is moving in a direction that gives us more comfort. As I said, we’ve got two months now where core inflation is a little lower, but we’re not looking at that as a reason to take some comfort. You know, I think we need to really see that our expectation is being fulfilled that inflation, in fact, is under control and starting to come down. But, again, it’s not like we would stop. We would just go back to 25 basis point increases. It’ll be a judgment call when these meetings arrive. But, again, our expectation is, if we see what we expect to see, then we would have 50 basis point increases on the table at the next two meetings.

So neutral. When we talk about the neutral rate, we’re really talking about the rate that neither pushes economic activity higher nor slows it down. So it’s a concept, really. It’s not something we can identify with any precision. So we estimate it within broad bands of uncertainty. And the current estimates on the Committee are sort of 2 to 3 percent. And also, that’s a longer run estimate. That’s an estimate for an economy that’s at full employment and 2 percent inflation. So, really, what we’re doing is, we’re raising rates expeditiously to what we see as the broad range of plausible levels of neutral. But we know that there’s not a bright line drawn on the road that tells us when we get there. So we’re going to be looking at financial conditions, right? Our policy affects financial conditions, and financial conditions affect the economy. So we’re going to be looking at the effect of our policy moves on financial conditions. Are they tightening appropriately? And then we’re going to be looking at the effects on the economy. And we’re going to be making a judgment about whether we’ve done enough to get us on a path to restore price stability. It’s that. So if that path happens to involve levels that are higher than estimates of neutral, then we will not hesitate to go to those levels. We won’t. But, again, there’s a sort of false precision in the discussion that we as policymakers don’t really feel. You know, you’re going to raise rates, and you’re going to be kind of inquiring how that is affecting the economy through financial conditions. And, of course, if higher rates are required, then we won’t hesitate to deliver them.

We don’t really see strong evidence of that yet, but that does not in any way make us comfortable. I think if you look at short term inflation expectations, they’re quite elevated. And you can look at that and say, “Well, that’s because people expect inflation to come down.” And, in fact, inflation expectations [at longer horizons] come down fairly sharply. Longer term inflation expectations have been reasonably stable but have moved up to but only to levels where they were in 2014, by some measures. So you can look at that. And I think that’s a fair description of the picture. But it’s really about the risks. We don’t see a wage–price spiral. We see that companies have the ability to raise prices, and they’re doing that, but there have been price shocks. So I just think it takes you back to the basic point was that we know we need to expeditiously move our policy rate up to ranges of more normal, neutral levels. And we need to look around and keep going if we don’t see that financial conditions have tightened adequately or that the economy is behaving in ways that suggest that we’re not where we need to be. So, again, you don’t see those things yet, but I would say there’s no basis for feeling comfortable about that. It’s a risk that we simply can’t run. We can’t allow a wage–price spiral to happen. And we can’t allow inflation expectations to become unanchored. It’s just something that we can’t allow to happen, and so we’ll look at it that way.

Well. So our tools don’t really work on supply shocks. Our tools work on demand. And to the extent we can’t affect, really, oil prices or other commodity prices or food prices and things like that, so we can’t affect those. But there’s a job to do on demand. And that you can see that in the labor market, where demand is substantially in excess of supply of workers. And you can see it in the product markets as well. But I guess I’m just pointing out that a couple of things. For both the situation in Ukraine and the situation in China, they’re likely to, both, add to headline inflation. And people are going to be suffering from that, you know. People almost suffer more from food and energy shocks then, but even though they don’t actually tell us much about the future path. So the second thing is that they’re both capable of preventing further progress in supply chains healing or even making supply chains temporarily worse. So they’re going to weigh on the process of global supply chain healing, which is going to affect broader inflation, too. So, in a way, they’re two further negative shocks that have hit really in the last, you know, 60 days, 90 days.

So, you know, I’ll just say: For now, we’re focused on doing the job we need to do on demand, and there’s plenty to be done there. Again, if you look at it, it’s essentially almost two to one, job vacancies to unemployed people. There’s a lot of excess demand. There’re more than 5 million more employed plus job openings than there are the size of the labor force. So there’s an imbalance there that we have to do our work on. A very difficult situation you know, you would look at core inflation, which wouldn’t include the commodity price shocks. And, you know, that’s one of the reasons we would tend to focus on that, because we can have more of an effect on that, but it would be a very difficult situation. I mean, we have to be sure that inflation expectations remain anchored. And I mean, that’s part of our job, too, so we’d be watching that carefully. And it puts any central bank in a very difficult situation.

Okay, so in terms of the vacancies to unemployment ratio, we don’t have a goal in mind. There’s no specific number that we’re saying, “We’ve got to get to that.” It’s really, you’ve got to get to a place where the labor market appears to be more in balance. And that depends not only on the level of those things it also, it depends on how well the matching functions in the labor markets are working. Because, you know, the longer these expansions go on, you can get very efficient with all of that, and the Beveridge curve shifts out. And that also tends to, you know, to help. So there isn’t a specific number. I will say we were  you know, I think, I think when we got to one to one in the, you know, in the late teens, we thought that was a pretty good number. But, again, we’re not shooting for any particular number. What we’d like to see is progress, but we’re not really looking at that. That’s an intermediate variable. We’re looking at wages, and we’re looking at, ultimately, inflation. So, you know, there are a bunch of channels through which policy works. You can think of it as, you know, interest sensitive spending, and then you can think of another big one as asset values broadly. And, you know, there’re big models with, you know, a lot of different channels that are related to that. You know, we don’t focus on any one market the equity market or the housing market we focus on financial conditions broadly. So we wouldn’t be targeting any one market, as you suggest, for going up or down or taking a view on whether it’s at a good level or a bad level. We just would be looking at very broad measures of financial conditions all the different financial conditions indexes, for example, which include equity. But they also include debt and other, many other things credit spreads, things like that too.

So, first, the first thing to say is that we understand. And some of us are old enough to have lived through high inflation, and many aren’t. But it’s very unpleasant. It’s just something people don’t when they experience it for the first time, you’re paying more for the same thing. If you’re a normal economic person, then you probably don’t have that much extra to spend. And it’s immediately hitting your spending on groceries, on, you know, on gasoline, on energy, and things like that. So we understand the pain involved. So how do you get out of that? And it’s our job to make sure that inflation of that unpleasant, high nature doesn’t get entrenched in the economy. That’s what we’re here for, one of the main things we’re here for perhaps the most fundamental thing we’re here for. And the way we do that is, we try to get supply and demand back in sync with each other, back in balance, so that the economy is under less stress and inflation will go down. Now, the process of getting there involves higher rates so higher mortgage rates, higher borrowing rates, and things like that. So it’s not going to be pleasant either. But in the end, everyone is better off. Everyone  particularly people on fixed incomes and at the lower part of the income distribution are better off with stable prices. And so we need to do everything we can to restore stable prices. We’ll do it as quickly and effectively as we can. We think we have a good chance to do it without a significant increase in unemployment or, you know, a really sharp slowdown. But, ultimately, we think about the medium and longer term, and everyone will be better off if we can get this job done the sooner, the better.

So the economy is doing fairly well. We expect growth to be solid this year. And we see, you know, household spending and business investment as fairly strong  and even in the first quarter, which was relatively slow on some other fronts. So, and the labor market if you look at the labor market, for people who are out of work and looking, there are lots of job opportunities for wages are moving up and at rates that haven’t been seen in quite a long time. So it’s a good time to be a worker looking to, you know, either change jobs or get a wage increase in your current job. So it’s a strong economy, and nothing about it suggests that it’s close to, or vulnerable to, a recession. Now, of course, given events around the world and fading fiscal policy effects and higher rates, you could see some slower economic activity. Certainly, it will not be last year was an extraordinarily strong growth year as we recovered from the pandemic. As I mentioned, growth [was] over 5 percent. But most forecasters have growth this year at, you know, at a solid pace above 2 percent.

So, and as I said, I think we have a good chance to restore price stability without a recession without, you know, a severe downturn; without materially high, higher unemployment. And I mentioned the reasons for that. So I see a strong economy now. I see a very strong labor market, for example. Businesses can’t find the people to hire they can’t find them. So, typically, in a recession, you would have unemployment. Now you have surplus demand. So there should be room, in principle, to reduce that surplus demand without putting people out of work. The issue will come that we don’t have precision surgical tools. We have, essentially, interest rates, the balance sheet, and forward guidance, and they’re famously blunt tools. They’re not capable of surgical precision. So I would agree. No one thinks this will be easy, no one thinks it’s straightforward, but there is certainly a plausible path to this, and I do think we’ve got a good chance to do that. And, you know, our job is not to rate the chances it is to try to achieve it. So that’s what we’re doing. There are a range of opinions, though, and that’s only appropriate.

You know, it’s really the Fed that has responsibility for price stability. And we take whatever arrives at the Fed in terms of fiscal activity, we take it as a given, and we don’t evaluate it it’s not our job, really. We don’t have an oversight function there. And we look at it as our job, given all the factors that are happening, to try to sustain maximum employment and price stability. So if Congress or the Administration has ways to help with inflation, I would encourage that, but I’m not going to get into making recommendations or anything like that. It’s not, it’s really not our role we need to stay in our lane and do our job. When we get inflation back under control, then maybe I can, you know, give other people advice [laughter]. Right now, we need to focus on, just focus on doing our job. And I’ll stick to that. Stick in our lane.

So I think it’s certainly possible that we’ll need to move policy to levels that we see as restrictive as opposed to just neutral. We can’t know that today. That decision is not in front of us today. If we do conclude that we need to do that, then we won’t hesitate to do it. I’ll say again, there’s no bright line, you know, that you’re stepping over. You’re really looking at what our policy stance is and what the market is forecasting for it. You’re looking at financial conditions and how that’s affecting the economy and making a judgment. You know, we won’t be arguing about whose model of the neutral rate is better than the other one. It’s much more about a practical application of our policy tools. And we’re absolutely prepared to do that. It wouldn’t hesitate if that’s what it takes. So I am, of course who isn’t an admirer of Paul Volcker? I shouldn’t be singled out in this respect. But I knew him just a little bit and have tremendous admiration for him. And I  But I would phrase it this way: He had the courage to do what he thought was the right thing. That’s what it was. It wasn’t a particular thing. It was that he always did he always did what he thought was the right thing. If you read his last autobiography, that really comes through. So that’s [what] the test is. It isn’t, will we do one particular thing? I would say, we do see, though we see restoring price stability as absolutely essential for the country in coming years. Without price stability, the economy doesn’t work for anybody, really. And so it’s really essential, particularly for the labor market. If you think about it, like if you look at the last cycle, we had a very, very longest expansion cycle in our recorded history. In the last two, three years, you had the benefits of this tight labor market going to people in the lower quartiles. And it was, you know, racial, wealth, and income not wealth, but income gaps were coming down, wage gaps. So it’s a really great thing. We’d all love to get back to that place. But to get back to anything like that place, you need price stability. So, basically, we’ve been hit by historically large inflationary shocks since the pandemic. This isn’t anything like regular business. This is, we have a pandemic, we have the highest unemployment, you know, in since the Depression. Then we have this outsized response from fiscal policy and monetary policy. Then we have inflation. Then we have a war in Ukraine, which is cutting the commodity, you know, patch in half. And now we have these shutdowns in China. So it’s been a series of inflationary shocks that are really different from anything people have seen in 40 years. So we have to look through that and look at the economy that’s coming out the other side. And we need to somehow find price stability out of this. And it’s obviously going to be very challenging, I think, because you do have, you know, numerous supply shocks, which are famously difficult to deal with. So I guess that’s how I think about it.

So I didn’t if I said “necessary,” I meant to say “appropriate.” We’re not going to be erecting a high barrier for this. It’s more, if we think it’s appropriate. You know, the point is, we’re a very long way from neutral now. We’re moving there expeditiously, and we’ll continue to do so. And we can’t make that decision, really, today. The decision for about how high to go will be on the table to be made when we reach neutral. And, you know, I expect we’ll get there expeditiously, as I’ve mentioned. So it’s not that we don’t want to making that decision today wouldn’t really mean anything. But I’ll say again, if we do believe that it’s appropriate to go to those levels, we won’t hesitate.

So, why June 1? It was just, pick a date, you know, and that happened to be the date that we picked. It was nothing magic about it. You know, it’s not going to have any macroeconomic significance over time. We just picked that. Sometimes we publish these calendars on the first day of the month, and that’s what we’re doing. I wouldn’t read anything into it. In terms of the effect, I mean, I would just stress how uncertain the effect is of shrinking the balance sheet. You know, we run these models and everyone does in this field and make estimates of what will be, how do you measure, you know, a certain quantum of balance sheet shrinkage compared to quantitative easing? And, you know, these are very uncertain. I really can’t be any clearer. There won’t be any clearer [estimates]. You know, people estimate that, broadly, on the path we’re on and this will be taken, probably, too seriously but sort of ¼ percent, one rate increase over the course of a year at this pace. But I would just say, with very wide uncertainty bands very wide. We don’t really know. There are other estimates that are much smaller than that, by the way. And some of you may read about that. That’s kind of a mainstream estimate. We know that it is part of returning to more normal, more neutral financial conditions. And, you know, our strategy is to set up a plan and have it operate and really have, you know, have the interest rate be the active tool of monetary policy. In terms of speaking to the American people, so I feel like sometimes I just want to remind us, really, that that’s who we work for, and that it’s inflation that people are feeling all over the country. And it’s very important that they know that we know how painful it is and that we are working hard on fixing it. I thought it was quite important to do that. And so that was really the thinking behind that.

No, I don’t. And a good example of why would be in the fourth quarter of last year, as we started talking about tapering sooner and then raising rates this year, you saw financial markets reacting, you know, very appropriately. Not to bless any particular day’s measure, but the way financial markets, the forward rate curve has tightened in response to our guidance and our actions really amplifies our policy. It’s monetary policy is working through expectations now, to a very large extent. We’ve only done two rate increases. But if you look at financial conditions, the two year [rate] is at 280 [basis points] now. In September, I think it was at 20 basis points. And that’s all through the economy. People are feeling those higher rates already. And so that shows that the markets think that our forward guidance is credible. And I think we want to keep it that way.

Well, so, as I mentioned, you can see places where the demand is substantially in excess of supply. And what you’re seeing as a result of that is prices going up and at unsustainable levels, levels that are not consistent with 2 percent inflation. And so what our tools do is that as we raise interest rates, demand moderates: it moves down. Interest rates, you know businesses will invest a little bit less, consumers will spend a little bit less. That’s how it works. But, ultimately, getting those, getting supply and demand back, you know, back in balance, is what gives us 2 percent inflation, which is what gives the economy a footing where people can lead successful economic lives and not worry about inflation. I mean, so, yes, there may be some pain associated with getting back to that. But, you know, the big pain over time is in not dealing with inflation and allowing it to become entrenched.

So, look, I think what you’ve seen is really, I would say, in the middle of last fall there was a time when our policy stance was still pretty much in sync with what the data were saying. If you remember, there were a couple of weak jobs reports. And inflation month by month, inflation had come down till September, a few months in a row, stayed low. And then around the end of October, we got three or four really strong readings that just said, no, this is a much stronger economy. And by the way then, with the restatement of the jobs numbers, it looked like the job market was much more even and stronger in the second half of the year. But that hadn’t happened yet. Anyway, we got an ECI reading employment compensation, [employment cost] index reading the Friday before the November meeting. Then we got a really strong jobs report. Then we got a really high CPI report. And so I think it became clear to the Committee that we needed to adjust and adapt. And we have. Ever since then, really ever since then, we’ve been adapting. We, you know the Committee moved by the time of the December meeting to a median [in participants’ 2022 projections] of three rate increases, then to a median of seven increases at the March meeting. And that process is going on. And it’s clearly continuing. And that’s why I say and I actually mentioned this at the March meeting that no one should look at any single SEP as sort of a real resting place for 90 days, because we’re in a fast evolving situation. And that’s what’s happened. You can see  unanimous vote today, of course. And I told you the guidance that broad support on the Committee to have 50 basis point hikes on the table at the next couple of meetings. So you’re right. And by the way, other forecasters have been doing the same thing. And it’s just us adapting to the data and to the situation and using our tools to deal with it.

So unemployment rates for all racial groups have come down a lot and are now much closer to where they were before the pandemic hit. So that’s one thing I would say. And that’s important. But the bigger point is this: I do not, at this time, see the two sides of the mandate as in tension. I don’t, because you can see that the labor market is out of balance. You can see that there’s a labor shortage. There aren’t enough people to fill these job openings. And companies can’t hire, and wages are moving up at levels that would not, over time, be consistent with 2 percent inflation over time. And, of course, everyone loves to see wages go up. And it’s a great thing, but you want them to go up at a sustainable level, because these wages are, to some extent, being eaten up by inflation. So, what that really means is, to get the kind of labor market we really want to get, we really want to have a labor market that serves all Americans, especially the people in the lower income part of the distribution, especially them. To do that, you’ve got to have price stability. And we’ve got to get back to price stability so that we can have a labor market where people’s wages aren’t being eaten up by inflation and where we can have a long expansion, too. That’s the good things you can have, as we have. We’ve had several of the longest expansions in U.S. history have been in the last 40 years, and that’s because it’s been a time of low inflation. And long expansions are good for people and good for the labor market. So that’s the way I think about it. I think we you know, our tools work. We have to think in the, in the medium and longer term. And I do think that the best thing for everyone is for us to get back to price stability to support, really, a sustained period of strong labor market conditions. Thanks very much.