Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dualmandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Our economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward our goals over the past two years. The labor market has cooled from its formerly overheated state. Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7 percent to an estimated 2.2 percent as of August. We’re committed to maintaining our economy’s strength by supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to our 2 percent goal. Today, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to reduce the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by ½ percentage point. This decision reflects our growing confidence that with an appropriate recalibration of our policy stance, strength in the labor market can be maintained in a context of moderate growth and inflation moving sustainably down to 2 percent. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace. GDP rose at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first half of the year, and available data point to a roughly similar pace of growth this quarter. Growth of consumer spending has remained resilient, and investment in equipment and intangibles has picked up from its anemic pace last year. In the housing sector, investment fell back in the second quarter after rising strongly in the first. Improving supply conditions have supported resilient demand and the strong performance of the U.S. economy over the past year. In our Summary of Economic Projections, Committee participants generally expect GDP growth to remain solid, with a median projection of 2 percent over the next few years. In the labor market, conditions have continued to cool. Payroll job gains averaged 116,000 per month over the past three months, a notable stepdown from the pace seen earlier in the year. The unemployment rate has moved up but remains low at 4.2 percent. Nominal wage growth has eased over the past year, and the jobstoworkers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market are now less tight than just before the pandemic in 2019. The labor market is not a source of elevated inflationary pressures. The median projection for the unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.4 percent at the end of this year, fourtenths higher than projected in June. Inflation has eased notably over the past two years but remains above our longerrun goal of 2 percent. Estimates based on the consumer price index and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.2 percent over the 12 months ending in August and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.7 percent. Longerterm inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters as well as measures from financial markets. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.3 percent this year and 2.1 percent next year, somewhat lower than projected in June. Thereafter, the median projection is 2 percent. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. For much of the past three years, inflation ran well above our 2 percent goal, and labor market conditions were extremely tight. Our primary focus had been on bringing down inflation, and appropriately so. We are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. Our restrictive monetary policy has helped restore the balance between aggregate supply and demand, easing inflationary pressures and ensuring that inflation expectations remain well anchored. Our patient approach over the past year has paid dividends: Inflation is now much closer to our objective, and we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. As inflation has declined and the labor market has cooled, the upside risks to inflation have diminished, and the downside risks to employment have increased. We now see the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals as roughly in balance, and we are attentive to the risks to both sides of our dual mandate. In light of the progress on inflation and the balance of risks, at today’s meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ½ percentage point to 4¾ percent to 5 percent. This recalibration of our policy stance will help maintain the strength of the economy and the labor market and will continue to enable further progress on inflation as we begin the process of moving toward a more neutral stance. We are not on any preset course. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. We know that reducing policy restraint too quickly could hinder progress on inflation. At the same time, reducing restraint too slowly could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. If the economy evolves as expected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 4.4 percent at the end of this year and 3.4 percent at the end of 2025. These median projections are lower than in June, consistent with the projections for lower inflation and higher unemployment, as well as the changed balance of risks. These projections, however, are not a Committee plan or decision. As the economy evolves, monetary policy will adjust in order to best promote our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we are prepared to respond. Policy is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policymaximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and pricestability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

So, okay, a lot of questions in there. [Laughter] Let me jump in. So, since the last meetingokay, the last meeting we have had a lot of data come in. We’ve had the two employment reports, July and August. We’ve also had two inflation reports, including one that came in during blackout. We had the QCEW report, which suggests that maybethat not maybe, but suggests that the payroll report numbers that we’re getting may be artificially high and will be revised down. You know that. We’ve also seen anecdotal data, like [the data collected in] the Beige Book. So we took all of those, and we went into blackout. And we thought about what to do, and we concluded that this was the right thing for the economy, for the people that we serve, and that’s, that’s how we made our decision. So that’s one question. What was the second and third?

Sure. So a couple things. A good place to start is theis the SEP, but let me start with what I said, which was that we’re going to be making decisions meeting by meeting based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, the balance of risks. If you look at the SEP, you’ll, you’ll see that it’s, it’s a process of recalibrating our policy stance away from where we had it a year ago, when inflation was high and unemployment low, to a place that’s more appropriate given where we are now and where we expect to be. And that process will take place over time. There’s nothing in thein the SEP that suggests the Committee is in a rush to get this done. This, this process evolves over time. Of course, that’s a projection. That’s a baseline projection. We know, as I mentioned in my remarks, that the actual things that we do will depend on the way the economy evolves. We can go quicker if that’s appropriate. We can go slower if that’s appropriate. We can pause if that’s appropriate. But that’s, that’s what we are contemplating. Again, I would point you to the SEP as just an assessment of wherewhat the Committee is thinking todaywhat the individual members, rather, of the Committee are thinking today, assuming that their particular forecasts takeyou know, are realized.

I think it wouldthe way I would really characterize it is this: I think people write down their estimate, individuals do. I think every single person on the Committee, if you asked them, what’s your level of certainty around that, they would say there’s a wide range where that could fall. So I think we don’t know. There are modelbased approaches and empirically based approaches that estimate what the neutral rate will be at any given time. But, realistically, we know it by its works. So that leaves us in a place where we’ll bewhere we expect, in the base case, to be continuing to remove restriction, and we’ll be looking at the way the economy reacts to that. And that’ll be guiding us in our thinking about the question that we’re asking at every meeting, which is, is our policy stance the appropriate one? We knowif you go back, we know that the policy stance we adopted in July of 2023 came at a time when unemployment was 3½ percent and inflation was 4.2 percent. Today, unemployment is up to 4.2 percent; inflation’s down to a few tenths above 2. So we know that it is time to recalibrate our policy to something that is more appropriate given the progress on inflation and on employment moving to a more sustainable level. So the balance of risks are now even. And this is the beginning of that process I mentioned, the direction of which is toward a sense of neutral, and we’ll move as fast or as slow as we think is appropriate in real time. What you have is our individualaccumulation of individual estimates of what that will be in the base case.

I think we had a gooda good discussion. You know, if you go back, I talked about this at Jackson Hole, but I didn’t address the question of the size of the cut and left it open, and I think we left it open going into blackout. And so there was a lot of discussion back and forth, good diversity ofexcellent discussion today. I think there was also broad support for the decision that the Committee voted on. So I would add, though, look at the

We’re going to take it meeting by meeting, as I mentioned. There’s no sense that the Committee feels it’s in a rush to do this. We made a good, strong start to this, and that’s really, frankly, a sign of our confidenceconfidence that inflation is, is coming down toward 2 percent on a sustainable basis. That gives us the ability. We can, you know, make a good, strong start. Butand I’m very pleased that we did. To me, the logic of this, both from an economic standpoint and also from a riskmanagement standpoint, was clear. But I think we’re going to go carefully, meeting by meeting, and make our decisions as we go.

So, again, the labor market is actually in solid condition, and our intention with our policy move today is to keep it there. You can say that about the whole economy. The U.S. economy is in good shape. It’s growing at a solid pace, inflation is coming down, the labor market is in a strong pace, we want to keep it there. That’s, that’s what we’re doing.

Okay, multiple questions in there. So I would say we don’t think we’re behind. We do not thinkwe think this is timely, but I think you can take this as a sign of our commitment not to get behind. So it’s, it’s a strong move. Sorry, your other question was?

So I think it’s aboutwe come into this with a policy position that was put in place, as you know, I mentioned, in July of 2023, which was a time of high inflation and very low unemployment. We’ve been very patient about, about reducing the policy rate. We’ve waited. Other central banks around the world have cut, many of them several times. We’ve waited, and I think that that patience has really paid dividends in the form of our confidence that inflation is moving sustainably under 2 percent. So I think that is what enables us to take this, this strong move today. I do not think that anyone should look at this and say, “Oh, this is the new pace.” You know, you have to think about it in terms of the base case. Of course, what happens will happen. So, so, in the base case, what you see islook at the SEP, you see cuts moving along. The sense of this is we’re recalibrating policy down over time to a more neutral level. And we’re moving at the pace that we think is appropriate given developments in the economy and the base case. The economy can develop in a way that would cause us to go faster or slower, but that’s what the base case is.

So, in the current situation, reserves have really been stable. They haven’t come down. So reserves are still abundant and expected to remain so for some time. As you know, the shrinkage in our balance sheet has really come out of the overnight RRP [facility]. So I think what that tells you is, we’re not thinking about, about stopping runoff because of this at all. We know that these two things can happen side by side. In a sense, they’re both a form of normalization, and so, for a time, you can have the balance sheet shrinking but also be cutting rates.

So I think what we’re seeing is, clearly labor market conditions have cooled off by any measure, as I talked about in Jackson Hole, andbut they’re still at a level the level of those conditions is actually pretty close to what I would call maximum employment. So you’re close to mandate, maybe at mandate, on that. So what’s driving it? Clearly, clearly payroll job creation has moved down over the last few months, and this bears watching. Many By many other measures, the labor market has returned to or below 2019 levels, which was a very good, strong labor market, but this is more sort of 2018, ’17. So the labor market bears closebears close watching, and we’ll be giving it that. But ultimately, we thinkwe believe, with an appropriate recalibration of our policy, that we can continue to see the economy growing, and that will support the labor market. In the meantime, if you look at the growth in economic activity data, retail sales data that we just got, secondquarter GDPall of this indicates an economy that is still growing at a solid pace. So that should also support the labor market over time. Sobut again, we’reit bears watching. And we’re watching.

So we’rethat’syou know, our plan, of course, has been to begin to recalibrate and we’reas you know, we’re not seeing rising claims, we’re not seeing rising layoffs, we’re not seeing that, and we’re not hearing that from companies that that’s something that’s getting ready to happen. So we’re not waiting for that, because, you know, there isthere is thinking that the time to support the labor market is whenis when it’s strong and not when we begin to see the layoffs. There’s some lore on that. So that’s the situation we’re in. We have, in fact, begun the cutting cycle now, and we’ll be watchingand that’ll be one of the factors that we consider. Of course, we’re going to look at the totality of the data as we make these decisions meeting by meeting.

We’re going to be watching all of the data, right? So ifas I mentioned in my remarks, if the labor market were to slow unexpectedly, then we have the ability to react to that by, by cutting faster. We’re also going to be looking at our other mandate, though. We are morewe have greater confidence now that inflation is moving down to 2 percent, but, at the same time, our plan is that we will be at 2 percent, you know, over time. Soand policy, we think, is still restrictive, so that should still be happening.

So, you know, what I would say is, we don’t think we need to see further loosening in labor market conditions to get inflation down to 2 percent. But we have a dual mandate, and I think you can take this whole action astake a step back, what have we been trying to achieve? We’re trying to achieve a situation where we restore price stability without the kind of painful increase in unemployment that has come sometimes with disinflation. That’s what we’re trying to do. And I think you can take today’s action as a sign of our strong commitment to achieve that goal.

Sure. So we’ll start with unemployment, which is the single most important one probably. You’re at 4.2 percent. That’s, you knowI know it’s higher than we were used to seeing, numbers in the mid and even below mid3s last year, but, if you look back over the sweep of the years, that’s, that’s a low. That’s a very healthy unemployment rate. And anything in the low 4s is, is a reallyis a good labor market. So that’s one thing. Participation is at high levels. It’s, you knowwe’ve hadwe’re rightadjusted for demographics for aging, participation’s at pretty high levels. That’s a good thing. Wages are still a bit above what would be theirwage increases, rather, are still just a bit above where they would be over the very longer term to be consistent with 2 percent inflation, but they’re very much coming down to what that sustainable level is. So we feel good about that. Vacancies overper unemployed is back to what is still a very strong level. It’s not as high as it was. That number reached two to one, two vacancies for every unemployed person. As measured, it’s now belowit’s around one. But that’s stillthat’s still a very good number, I would say. You know, quits have come back down to normal levels. I mean, I could go on and on. There are many, many employment indicators. What do they say? They say this is still a solid labor market. The question isn’t the level; the question is that there has been change, particularly over the last few months, and, you know, so what we say is, as the risks, the upside risks, to inflation have really come down, the downside risks to employment have increased. And, and because we have been patient and held our fire on cutting while, while inflation has come down, I think we’re now in a very good position to manage the risks to both of our goals.

You know, more data, the usual. Don’t look for anything else. We’ll see another labor report. We’ll see another jobs report. I think we get awe might, actually we get twowe get a second jobs report on the day of the meeting, I think, or no, no, on the Friday before the meeting. Soand inflation data. We’ll get all this data. We’ll be watching. You know, it’s always a question of, look at the incoming data and ask what are the implications of that data for the evolving outlook and the balance of risks and then go through our process and think, what’s the right thing to do? Is policy where we want it to be to foster the achievement of our goals over time? So that’s what it is, and that’s what we’ll be doing.

So, on the job creation, it depends onit depends on the inflows, right? So, if you’re having millions of people come into the labor force then, and you’re creating 100,000 jobs, you’re going to see unemployment go up. So it really depends on what’s the trend underlying the volatility of people coming into the country. We understand there’s been quite an influx across the borders, and that has actually been one of the things that’s, that’s, that’s allowed the unemployment rate to rise. And the other thing is just the slower hiring rate, which is something we also watch carefully. So it does depend on what’s happening on the supply side. On the Beveridge curve question, yes, so we all felt, on the Committee, not all, but I think everyone on the Committee felt that job openings were so elevated that they could fall a long way before you hit the part of the curve where job openings turned into higher unemployment, job loss. And yes, I mean, I think we areit’s hard to know thatyou can’t know these things with great precision, but certainly it appears that we’re very close to that point, if not at it, so that further declines in job openings will translate more directly into unemployment. But it’s been it’s been a great ride down. I mean, we’ve seen a lot of, of tightness come out of the labor market in that form without it resulting in lower employment.

So this is a questionand you mean after we get through all of this? It’s justgreat question that we just, we can only speculate about. Intuitively, mostmany, many people anyway, would say we’re probably not going back to that era where there were trillions of dollars of sovereign bonds trading at negative rateslongterm bonds trading at negative rates. And it looked like the neutral rate wasmight even be negative, soand it waspeople were issuing debt at negative rates. It seems that’s so far away now. My own sense is that we’re not going back to that. But, you know, honestly, we’re going to find out. But, you know, it feelsit feels to me that the neutral rate is probably significantly higher than it was back then. How high is it? I don’tI just don’t think we know. It’sagain, we only know it by its works.

Yeah, so, you know, this is my fourth presidential election at the Fed, and, you know, it’s always the same. We’re alwayswe’re always going into this meeting, in particular, and asking, what’s the right thing to do for the people we serve? And we do that, and we make a decision as a group, and then we announce it. And it’sthat’s always what it is. It’s never about anything else. Nothing else is discussed, and I would also point out that the things that we do really affect economic conditions for the most part with a lag. So, nonetheless, this is what we do. Our job is to support the economy on behalf of the American people. And, if we get it right, this will benefit the American people significantly. So this really concentrates the mind, and, you know, it’s something we all take very, very seriously. We don’t put up any other filters. I think if you start doing that, I don’t know where you stop. And so we just don’t do that.

I would just say that, you know, the U.S. economy is in a good place, and, and our decision today is designed to keep it there. More specifically, the economy is growing at a solid pace, inflation is coming down closer to our 2 percent objective over time, and the labor market is still in solid shape. So our intention is really to maintain the strength that we currently see in the U.S. economy. And we’ll do that by returning rates from their high level, which has really beenthe purpose of which has been to get inflation under control. We’re, we’re going to move those down over time to a more normal level over time.

No, we’re not. So inflation, you knowwhat we say is we want inflationthe goal is to have inflation move down to 2 percent on a sustainable basis. And, you know, we’re not reallywe’re close, but we’re not really at 2 percent. And I think we’re going to want to see it be, you know, around 2 percent and close to 2 percent for some time, but we’re certainly not doingwe’re not saying “mission accomplished” or anything like that. But I have to say, though, we’re encouraged by the progress that we have made.

So housing inflation is theis the one piece that is kind of dragging a bit, if I can say. We know that market rents are doing what we would want them to do, which is to be moving up at relatively low levels, but they’re not rolling overthe leases that are rolling over are not coming down as much and OER is coming in high. So, you know, it’s been slower than we expected. I think we now understand that it’s going to take some time for those lower market rents to get into this. But, you know, the direction of travel is clear, and as long as market rents remain, you know, relatively low inflation, over time that will show up, just the time it’s taking now, several years rather than just one or two cycles of annual lease renewals. So that’sI think we understand that now, but I don’t think the outcome is in doubt again. As long as market rents remain under control, the outcome is not as in doubt. So I would say it’sthe rest of the portfolioor of the elements that go into core PCE inflation have behaved pretty well. You know, they’re allthey all have some volatility. We will get down to 2 percent inflation, I believe, and I believe that, ultimately, we’ll get what we need to get out of the housing services piece, too.

The housing market, it’s hard toit’s a game thatthe housing market is in part frozen because of lockin with low rates. People don’t want to sell their homes. So, because they have a very low mortgage, it would be quite expensive to refinance. As rates come down, people will start to move more, and that’s probably beginning to happen already. But remember, when that happens, you’ve got a seller, but you’ve also got a new buyer in many cases. So it’s not, you know, obvious how much additional demand that would make. I mean, the real issue with housing is that we have had, and are on track to continue to have, not enough housing. And so it’s going to be challenging. It’s hard to findto zone lots that are in places where people want to live. It’sall of the aspects of housing are more and more difficult, and, you know, where are we going to get the supply? And this is not something that the Fed can, can really fix. But I think, as we normalize rates, you’ll see the housing market normalize. And, I mean, ultimately by getting inflation broadly down and getting those rates normalized and getting the housing cycle normalized, that’s the best thing we can do for house holders. And then the supply question will have to be dealt with by the market and also by government.

So you’re right about lags, but I would just point to the overall economy. You have an economy that is growing at a solid pace. If you look at forecasters or talk to companies, they’ll say that they think 2025 should be a good year, too. So there’s no sensethe U.S. economy is basically fine if you talk to market participants, I mean, you know, business people who are actually out there doing business. So I think, you know, I think our move is timely. I do. And, as I said, you canyou can see our, our 50 basis point move as a commitment to make sure that we don’t fall behind. So you’re really asking aboutyour second question, you’re asking about July. And I guess if you ask if we’d gotten the July report before the meeting, would we have cut? We might well have. We didn’t make that decision, but we might well have. I think that’s notyou know, that doesn’t really answer the question that we ask ourselves, which is, let’s look, you knowat this meeting we’re looking back to the July employment report, the August employment report, the two CPI reports, one of which came, of course, during blackout, and all of the other things that I mentioned. We’re looking at all of those things, and we’re asking ourselves, what’s the rightwhat’s the policy stance we need to move to? We knewit’s clear that weclearly, literally, everyone on the Committee agreed that it’s time to move. It’s just how bighow fast do you go, and what do you think about the paths forward. So this decision we made today had broad support on the Committee, and I’ve discussed the path ahead.

Very hard for me to say. That’sfrom our standpoint, I can’t really speak to mortgage rates. I will say that’ll depend on how the economy evolves. Our intention, though, iswe think that our policy was appropriately restrictive. We think that it’s time to begin the process of recalibrating it to a level that’s more neutral, rather than restrictive. We expect that process to take some time, as you can see in the projections that we released today. And asif things work out according to that forecast, other rates in the economy will come down as well. However, the rate at which those things happen will really depend on how the economy performs. We can’t seewe can’t look a year ahead and know what the economy is to be doinggoing to be doing.

Well, what I can say to the public is that we had the highestwe had a burst of inflation. Many other countries around the world had a similar burst of inflation, and, when that happens, part of the answer is that we raise interest rates in order to cool the economy off in order to reduce inflationary pressures. It’s not something that people experience as pleasant, but, at the end, what you get is low inflation restored, price stability restored. And a good definition of price stability is that people in their daily decisions, they’re not thinking about inflation anymore. That’s where everyone wants to be, is back to what’s inflation, you know? Just keep it low, keep it stable. We’re restoring that. So what we’re going through now really restoresit will benefit people over a long period of time. Price stability benefits everybody over a long period of time, just by virtue of the fact that they don’t have to deal with inflation. So that’s what’s been going on, and I think we’ve made real progress. I completelywe don’t tell people how to think about the economy, of course. And, of course, people are [still] experiencing high prices, as opposed to high inflation. And we understand that’s painful.

We’re always going to try to do what we think is the right thing for the economy at that time. That’s what we’ll do. And that’s what we did today.

So we will continue to look at that broad array of labor market data, including the payroll numbers. We’re not discarding those. I mean, we’ll certainly look at those, but we will mentally tend to adjust them based on the QCEW adjustment, which you referred to. There isn’t a bright line. You know, it will bethe unemployment rate’s very important, of course, but there isn’t a single statistic or single bright line over which that thing that might move that would dictate one thing or another. We’ll look ateach meeting, we’ll look at all the data on inflation, economic activity, and the labor market, and we’ll make decisions about, is our policy stance where it needs to be to foster over the medium term our mandate goals? So I can’tI can’t say we have a bright line in mind.

Sure. So countries that aredemocracies around the world, countries that are sort of like the United States, all have what are called independent central banks. And the reason is that people have found over time that insulating the central bank from direct control by political authorities avoids making monetary policy in a way that favors maybe people who are in office as opposed to people who are not in office. So that’s the idea, is that you know, I think the data are clear that countries that have independent central banks, they get lower inflation. And so we’re, we’re notwe do our work to serve all Americans. We’re not serving any politician, any political figure, any cause, any issue, nothing. It’s just maximum employment and price stability on behalf of all Americans. And that’s how the other central banks are set up, too. It’s a good institutional arrangement, which has been good for the public and I hopeand I hope and strongly believe that it will continue.

You know what, hold the second question.

We’ll give you the second question. So the answer to your question is that, yes, those, those changes were negotiated between the agencies with my support and with my involvement, with the idea that we were going to repropose, repropose the changes that Vice Chair Barr talked about and then take comment on them. So, yes, that isthat’s happening with my support.

You know, I wouldI would bounce that question to Vice Chair Barr. It’s a good question, but I don’t have that today. Thanks.

No, I thinkI think, and we think, they are now roughly balanced. So if you go back for a long time, the risks were on inflation. We had a historically tight labor market, historically tight. There was a severe labor shortage, so very hot labor market. And we had inflation way above target. So, you know, that said to us, concentrate on inflation, concentrate on inflation. And we did for a while, and we kept at that, that the stance that we put in place 14 months ago was a stance that was focused on bringing down inflation. Part of bringing down inflation, though, is cooling off the economy and a little bit cooling off the labor market. You now have a cooler labor market, in part because of our activity. So what that tells you is, it’s time to change our stance. So we did that. The sense of the change in the stance is that we’re recalibrating our policy over time to a stance that will be more neutral. And today wasI think we made a good strong start on that. I think it was the right decision, and I think it should send a signal that we, you know, that we’re committed to coming up with a good outcome here.

I don’t think so. I don’tthere’sas I lookwell, let me look at it this way: I don’t see anything in the economy right now that suggests that the likelihood of a recessionsorry, of a downturn is elevated, okay? I don’t see that. You seeyou see growth at a solid rate, you see inflation coming down, and you see a labor market that’s, that’s still at very solid levels. So, so I don’t really see that, no. Thank you.