Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. We understand the hardship that high inflation is causing, and we remain strongly committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal. Price stability is the responsibility of the Federal Reserve. Without price stability, the economy doesn’t work for anyone. In particular, without price stability, we will not achieve a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. Since early last year, the FOMC has significantly tightened the stance of monetary policy. We have raised our policy interest rate by 5 percentage points, and we’ve continued to reduce our securities holdings at a brisk pace. We’ve covered a lot of ground, and the full effects of our tightening have yet to be felt. In light of how far we’ve come in tightening policy, the uncertain lags with which monetary policy affects the economy, and potential headwinds from credit tightening, today we decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. Looking ahead, nearly all Committee participants view it as likely that some further rate increases will be appropriate this year to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. And I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. The U.S. economy slowed significantly last year, and recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a modest pace. Although growth in consumer spending has picked up this year, activity in the housing sector remains weak, largely reflecting higher mortgage rates. Higher interest rates and slower output growth also appear to be weighing on business fixed investment. Committee participants generally expect subdued growth to continue. In our Summary of Economic Projections, the median projection has real GDP growth at 1.0 percent this year and 1.1 percent next year, well below the median estimate of the longerrun normal growth rate. The labor market remains very tight. Over the past three months, payroll job gains averaged a robust 283,000 jobs per month. The unemployment rate moved up but remained low in May at 3.7 percent. There are some signs that supply and demand in the labor market are coming into better balance. The labor force participation rate has moved up in recent months, particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years. Nominal wage growth has shown signs of easing, and job vacancies have declined so far this year. While the jobstoworkers gap has declined, labor demand still substantially exceeds the supply of available workers. FOMC participants expect supply and demand conditions in the labor market to come into better balance over time, easing upward pressures on inflation. The median unemployment rate projection in the SEP rises to 4.1 percent at the end of this year and 4.5 percent at the end of next year. Inflation remains well above our longerrun 2 percent goal. Over the 12 months ending in April, total PCE procesprices rose 4.4 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 4.7 percent. In May, the 12month change in the consumer price index came in at 4 percent, and the change in the core, core CPI was 5.3 percent. Inflation has moderated somewhat since the middle of last year. Nonetheless, inflation pressures continue to run high, and the process of getting inflation back down to 2 percent has a long way to go. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 3.2 percent this year, 2.5 percent next year, and 2.1 percent in 2025. Core PCE inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, is projected to run higher than total inflation, and the median projection has been revised in the SEP up to 3.9 percent this year. Despite elevated inflation, longerterm inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and priceand stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. We are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we’re strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. As I noted earlier, since early last year, we’ve raised our policy rate by 5 percentage points. We have been seeing the effects of our policy tightening on demand in the most interest rate–sensitive sectors of the economy, especially housing and investment. It will take time, however, for the full effects of monetary restraint to be realized, especially on inflation. The economy is facing headwinds from tighter credit conditions for households and businesses, which are likely to weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation. The extent of these effects remains uncertain. In light of how far we’ve come in tightening policy, the uncertain lags with which monetary policy affects the economy, and potential headwinds from credit tightening, the Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5 to 5¼ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. As I noted earlier, nearly, nearly all Committee participants expect that it will be appropriate to raise interest rates somewhat further by the end of the year. But at this meeting, considering how far and how fast we’ve moved, we judged it prudent to hold the target range steady to allow the Committee to assess additional information and its implications for monetary policy. In determining the extent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over time, the Committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments. In our SEP, participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. If the economy evolves as projected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 5.6 percent at the end of this year, 4.6 percent at the end of 2024, and 3.4 percent at the end of 2025. For the end of this year, the median projection is ½ percentage point higher than in our March projections. I hasten to add, as always, that these projections are not a Committee decision or plan. If the economy does not evolve as projected, the path for policy will adjust as appropriate to foster our maximum employment and pricestability goals. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation, as well as the balance of risks. We remain committed to bringing inflationbringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Reducing inflation is likely to require a period of belowtrend growth and some softening of labor market conditions. Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. To conclude: We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do at the Fed is in service to our public mission. We will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. And I look forward to your questions.

So, I guess I wouldI guess I would go back to the beginning of this tightening cycle to address that. So as we started our rate hikes early last year, we said there were three issues that would need to be addressed kind of in sequencethat of the speed of tightening, the level to which rates would need to go, and then a period of time over which we’d need to keep policy restrictive. So at the outset, going back 15 months, the key issue was how fast to move rates up, and we moved very quickly by historical standards. Then last December, after four consecutive 75 basis point hikes, we moderated to a pace of 50of a 50 basis point hike and then this year to three 25 basis point hikes at sequential meetings. So it seemed to us to make obvious sense to moderate our rate hikes as we got closer to our destination. So the decision to consider not hiking at every meeting and ultimately to hold rates steady at this meeting, I would just say it’s a continuation of, of that process. The main issue that we’re focused on now is determining the extent of additional policy firming that may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over timeso that the pace of the increases and the ultimate level of increases are separate variables, given how far itwe have come. It may make sense for rates to move higher but at a more moderate pace. I want to stress one more thingand that is that the Committee decision made today was only about this meeting. We didn’t make any decision about going forward, including what would happen at the next meeting, includingwe did not decide or really discuss anything about going to an everyothermeeting kind of an approach or, or really any other approach. We really were focused on what to do at this meeting.

So again, we didn’twe didn’t make a decision about July. I mean, of course, it, it came up in thein the meeting from time to time. But really, the focus was, was on what to do today. I would say about, about July two things: (1) [the] decision hasn’t been made, (2) I do expect that it will be a “live” meeting.

Sure.

So you’re, you’re right that the data came in, I would say, consistent with, but on the high side of, expectations. And if you go back to the oldthe former SEPthe last SEP in March, you will see that [compared with March, projected real GDP] growth moved up. These are not huge moves, but growth estimates moved up a bit. Unemployment estimates moved down a bit. Inflation estimates moved up a bit. And, you know, all three of those kind of point in the same directionwhich is, you know, that perhaps more [monetary policy] restraint will be necessary than we had thought at the last meeting. So although the level, frankly, is, is prettythe level of 5.6 [percent] is pretty consistent, if you think about it, where the [expected] federal funds rate was trading before the bank incidents of early March. Sobut so we’ve kind of gone back to that. So your question is, where’s thewhere’s the disinflation going to come from? And I, you know, I don’t think the story has really changed. Wethe Committee has consistently said and believed that the process of getting inflation down is going to be a gradual one. It’s going to take some time. And I think you go back to theto the threepart framework for [analyzing] core PCE inflationwhich is, we think, as good an indicator as you can have for where inflation is going forward. You start with goods. With goods, we need to see continued healing in supply conditionssupplyside conditions. They’ve definitely improved a substantial amount, but if you talk to people in business, they will say it’s not back to where it was. So that’s, that’s one thing. And that should enable goods prices to continuegoods, goods inflation to continue to come down over time. In terms of housing services inflationthat’s another big piece. And, and you are seeing there that new rents in new, new leases are, are coming in at low levels. And it’s really a matter of time as that goes through the pipeline. In fact, I think any forecast that people are making right now about inflation coming down this year will, will contain a big dose ofthis year and next yearwill contain a, a good amount of, of disinflation [coming] from that source. And, and that’s, again, probably going to come slower than we would [previously have expected it to come into] effect. That leaves, you know, the big sector, which is a little more than half, pardon me, of theof core PCE inflation that’s not housing services. And, you know, we see only the earliest signs of disinflation there. It’s a sectorit’s a very broad and diverse sector. I would say [that,] in a number of the parts of that sector, the largest cost would be wage cost. It’s the service sector, so it’s, it’s heavily labor intensive. And I think many analysts would say that the key to getting inflation down there is to have a continuing loosening in labor market conditionswhich we have seen. We have actually seen, you knowI go through a number of indicators suggesting there has been some loosening in labor market conditions. We need to see that continue. I would almost say that the, the conditions that we need to see in place to get inflation down are, are coming into place. And that would be [real GDP] growth meaningfully below trend. It would be a labor market that’s loosening. It would be goods pipelines getting healthier and healthier and that kind of thing. There, therethe things are in place that we need to see, but the process of that actually working on inflation is going to take some time.

So thefirst, I would say that the, the question of speed is a separate question from the questionfrom thefrom, from that of level. Okay. Soand I think if you look at the SEP, that is our estimateour individualit’s, it’s really a cumulation of our individual estimates of how far to go. I, I mentioned how, how we got to those numbers. In terms of speed, it’s, it’s what I said at the beginning, which is, speed was very important last year. As we get closer and closer to the destinationand, according to the SEP, we’re not so far away from the destination, in most people’s accountingit’s, it’s reasonableit’s common sense to go a little slower, just as it was reasonable to go from 75 basis points to 50 to 25 at every meeting. And so the Committee thought overall that it was appropriate to moderate the pace, if only slightly. Then there are benefits to that. So that gives us more information to make decisions. We may try to make better decisions. I think it allows the economy a little more time to adapt as weas we make our decisions going forward, and we’ll get to see, you knowwe haven’t reallywe don’t know the full extent of, of the consequences of the banking turmoil that we’ve seen. We, weit would be early to see those, but we don’t know what the extent is. We’ll have some more time to see that unfold. I mean, it’s, it’s just the idea that we’re trying to get this right. And this isif you think of the two things as separate variables, then I thinkI think that the skipI shouldn’t call it a skipthe, the decision makes sense.

Well, I think you’re adding that to the, the data that we’ve seen since the last meeting, too. You know, wesince we chose to maintain rates at this meeting, it’ll really be a threemonth period of data that we can look at. And I think that’s a full quarter, and I think you canyou can draw more conclusions from that than you can from any sixany six week period. We’ll look at those things. We’ll also look at the evolving risk picture. We’ll look at what’s happening in the financial sector. We’ll look at all the data, the evolving outlook, and we’ll make a decision.

You know, II mean, on the first part, I just think we’re following the data and also the outlook. The economy isthe labor market, I think, has surprised many, if not all, analysts over the last couple of years with its extraordinary resilience, really. And it’s, it’s just remarkable. And that’s really, if you think about itthat’s what’s driving it. It’s job creation. It’s, it’s wages moving up. It’s, it’s supporting spending, which in turn is supporting hiring. And it’s, it’s really the engine, it seems, that isthat is driving the economy. And so it’s, it’s really the, the data. In terms of, you knowwe, we always write down at these meetings what we think the appropriate terminal rate will be at the end of this year. That’s, that’s how we do it. It’s based on our, our own individual assessments of what the most likely path of the economy is. It can beit can actually, in reality, wind up being lower or higher. And, you know, there’s really no way to know. But it’sit isit’s, it’s what people think as of today, and as theas the data come in, it, it can move around during the intermeeting period. It could wind up back in the same place. But it really will be data driven. I can’tI can’t tell you that that I ever have a lot of confidence that we can see where thewhere the federal funds rate will be that far in advance.

You know, I, I would say again that I think that, over time, the balance of risks, as we move from very, you knowfrom interest rates that are effectively zero now to 5 percentage points with, with an SEP calling for additional hikesI think we’ve moved much closer to our destination, which is that sufficiently restrictive rate, and I think that means byalmost by definition that thethat the risks of, of sort of overdoing it and under, underdoing it are, are getting closer to being in balance. I still think, and my, my colleagues agree, that, that the risks to inflation are to the upside still. So we don’twe don’t think we’re there with inflation yet because we’re just looking at the data. And if you look at theat the full range of, of inflation data, particularly the core data, you justyou just aren’t seeing a lot of progress over the last year. Headline, of course, inflation has come down materially, but, as you know, we look at core [inflation] as a better indicator of where inflation overall is going. Sufficientlyso I think, you know, what, what we’d like to see is credible evidence that inflation is topping out and then beginning to come down. That’s, that’s what we want to see of course that’s what we want to see. And I, I think it’sit’s alsowe understand that there are lags, but remember that it’s, it’s more than a year since financial conditions began tightening. I think it’sI think the reason we’re, we’re comfortable pausing is that we are stillmuch of the tightening took place over last summer and later into the year. And I think it’s, it’s reasonable to think that some of that may come into effect. So we’re, you knowI think stretching out into a more moderate pace is appropriate to, to allow you to make that judgment of sufficiency, you know, morewith more data over time.

Yeah. So it’s ait’s a challenging thing in, in economics. It’s, it’s sort of standard thinking that monetary policy affects economic activity with long and variable lags. Of course, these days, financial conditions begin to tighten well in advance of actual rate hikes. So if youif you look back when we were lifting off, we started talking about lifting offby the time we had lifted off, the twoyear [interest rate], which is a pretty good estimate of where [monetary] policy is going, had gone from 20 basis points to 200 basis points. So in that sense, tightening happens much sooner than it used to in a world where where news was in newspapers and not, you know, not on, on the wire. So that’s, that’s different. But it’s still the case that what you see is interestsensitive spending is affected very, very quicklyso housing, and durable goods, and things like that. But broader demand, and spending, and, and asset values, and things like thatthey just take longer. And you can pretty much find research to support whatever answer you would like on that. So there’s not any certainty or agreement in the profession on how long it takes. So, you know, then that makes it challenging, of course. So we’re, we’re looking at the calendar. We’re, we’re looking at what’s happening in the economy. We’re having to make these judgments. Again, it’s one of the main reasons why it makes sense to go at a slightly more moderate pace now as we seek that, that ultimateI can’t point tothat ultimate endpoint. I can’t point to a specific data point. I think we’ll see it when we see inflation, you know, really, really flattening out reliably and then starting to soften. I think we’ll know that we’rethat it’s working. And, ideally, by, by taking a little more time, we won’t go well past the level where we need to go.

So it’s, it’s too early still to, to try to assess the full extent of what that might mean. And, you know, that’s something we’re going to be watching, of course. And, you know, if we were to see what, what we would view as significant tightening beyond what would normally be expected because of, of this channel, then, you know, we would factor that into account on, onin, in making rate decisions. So that’s, that’s how we think about it.

Right. So I’m, I’m not going to comment on any particular paper, but I, I would say that theI think the overall picture is that at the beginning in, you know, early 2021, inflation was really becoming from very strong demand forlargely for goods. People were still at home. They had money in the bank, and they wanted to spendthey spent a lot on goods. And, of course, at the same timeand because of that high demand, to some extent, supply chains got all snarled up. So prices went way up. Inflation went way up. So that was the, the origin, and it wasn’t really particularly about the labor market or wages. But as youas you moved intothrough ’21, into ’22, and now in ’23, I think many, many analysts believe that it will be importantan important part of getting inflation down, especially in the nonhousing services sector, to getting wage inflation back to a level that is sustainable, that is consistent with 2 percent inflation. We actually have seen wages broadly move down but just at a quite gradual pace. So and that’s, you know, that’s a little bit of the finding of the Bernanke paper with Blanchard of a few weeks ago, which is very consistent with, with what I, I would think.

So I, I don’t want to deal with, with hypotheticals about different ways data might move. And so, we, you knowwe of coursewe’re notwe don’t go out of our way to surprise markets or the public. At the same time, our main focus has to be on getting the policy right. And that’s, that’s what we’re doing here, and that’s what we’ll do for the upcoming meetings. I will say the July meeting will be “live,” and we’ll just have to see. I think you’ll, you’ll see the data, you’ll hear Fed people talking about it, and, and markets will have to make a make a judgment.

You know, I, I think if you look atif, if you just look atI’ll just point you to the forecast. So inflation is runningcore PCE inflation is running at about 4½, a little higher than 4½ percent. And the, the median FOMC participant thinks it will go down to 3.9 on a 12month basis. This is by the end of this year. So that’s expecting pretty substantial progress. That’s, that’s a pretty significant decline for half a year. So that’s, that’s the forecast. You know, we’llwe do try to be transparent in our reaction function. We’re, we’re committed to getting inflation down. And that’s the numberone thing. So that’s how I think about it.

So let me say, first of all, on the Treasury part of itif I can talk about that and then go back to the balance sheet. So on thatof course, we’ve been very focused on that for a couple of months, as everyone has. [The] Treasury has laid out its borrowing plans publicly. I think we all sawI saw the Secretary’s comments yesterday to the effect that [the] Treasury has consulted widely with market participants about how to avoid market disruption and that they’re going to watch carefully for that. So that’s, that’s from the Treasury, which actually sets the, you know, the, the borrowings. At the Fed, we’ll be monitoring market conditions carefully as the Treasury refills the, the TGA. The adjustment process is very likely to involve both a reduction in the RRP facility and also in reserves. It’s really hard to say at theat the beginning of this which will bewhich will be greater. We are starting at a very high level of reservesand still elevated over RRP takeup, for that matterso we don’t think reserves are likely to become scarce in the near term or even over the course of the year. So that’s, that’sthat’s thethat’s the Treasury part of the answer. We will, of course, continue to monitor conditions in money markets, and we’re prepared to make adjustments to make sure that, that monetary policy transmission works. Was there another part of your question?

So we, we have a number ofI would say the [ON] RRP [facility] doesn’t look like it’s, it’s pulling money out ofout of the banking system. It’s actually been shrinking here lately. So I don’t thinkthat’s not something, something we’ve thought about a lot over time. It doesn’t really look like that’s, that’s something that we would do. I think it’sI think it’s a tool that we have. If we want to use it, we can. There are other tools we canwe can use to address money market issues. But I wouldn’t say that that’s something that’s likely that we would do in the near term.

So certainly housingvery interest sensitive, and it’s the first place, really, or one of the first places, that’s either helped by low rates or, or that is held back by, by higher rates. And we certainly saw that over the course of the last year. We now see housing putting in a bottom and maybe even moving up a little bit. You know, we’re watching that situation carefully. I do think wewe will see rents, rents and, and house prices filtering into, into housing services inflation. And I, I don’t see them coming up quickly. I, I do see them kind ofkind of wandering around at a relatively low level now, and that’s appropriate.

Well, I think we, we look at everything. We don’t just look at housing. So I think, you know, the way it works is the individual participants sit in their offices all over the country, and they write down their forecast andincluding their most likely forecastsincluding their rate forecast. And then they send it in on Friday afternoon, and we cumulate it, and then we publish it for you. So that’s howthat’s how they do that. Well, I don’t know that housing is, is itself going to be driving the rates picture, but it’s part of it.

I don’t do that. That’s really not my job. Wewe hope and expect that other policymakers will respect our independence on, on monetary policy. And we don’t see ourselves as, as, you know, the judges of appropriate fiscal policy. I will say, and many of my predecessors have said, that we’re on an unsustainable fiscal path and, and that needs to be addressed over time. But I think trying to get into, into that with lawmakers would bewould be kind of inappropriate, given our independence and our need to stick to our knitting.

No. Under no circumstances.

You know, II would just say it this way. I continue to thinkand this really hasn’t changedthat there is a path to getting inflation back down to 2 percent without having to see the kind of sharp downturn and, and large losses of employment that we’ve seen in so many past instances. It’s, it’s possible. Ain a way, a strong labor market isthat, that gradually cools could, could aid that alongit could aid that along. But I, I guess I want to come back to the, the main thing, which is, though, simply this. We, we seethe Committee as you can see from the SEP, the Committee is completely unified in the need to get inflation down to 2 percent and will do whatever it takes to get it down to 2 percent over time. That is our plan. And, you know, we, we understand that allowing inflation to get entrenched into thein the U.S. economy is the thing that we cannot, cannot allow to happen for the benefit of today’s workers and families and businesses but also for the future. Getting price stability back and, and restored will benefit generations of people as long as it’s sustained. And it really is the bedrock of the economy. And, and you should understand that that is our top priority.

Sure. So, you know, if you look two and three years out with, with the forecastfirst of all, I wouldn’tI wouldn’t put too much weight on forecasts even one year out because they’re, they’re so highly uncertain. But what they’re showing is that as inflation comes down in thein the forecast, if you don’t lower interest rates, then real rates are actually going up, right? So just to maintain a real rate, the nominal rate at that pointtwo years out, let’s sayshould come down just to maintain real rates. And ifand actually, you know, since we’re, we’re probably going towe’re, we’re having real rates that are going to have to be meaningfully positive and significantly. So for us to get inflation down, that probably means that, that certainly means that, that it will be appropriate to cut rates at such time as inflation is coming down really significantly. And again, we’re talking about a couple of years out. I think, as, as anyone can see, not a single person on the Committee wrote down a rate cut this year, nor do I think it is at all likely to be appropriate, if you think about it. Inflation has not really moved down. It hasit has not so far reacted much to ourto our existing rate hikes. And so we’re going have to keep at it.

So we are, of course, worried aboutthere arethere are long standing differences in racial and ethnic groups across, across our labor market. That’s a factor that we don’twe can’t really address with our tools. But we do consider that when we’re thinking about what constitutes maximum employmentit is, for us, a broad and inclusive goal. And so we do watch that. But remember, all unemployment, including Black unemployment, has been bouncing around right near historic lowshistoric modern lows here. So we’re still talking about, I mean, what is as strong a labor market as we’ve seen in, you know, a half century here in the United States. So overall unemployment of 3.7 percent is, is higherthree tenths higher than it was measured to be at the lasta month ago. But, still, it’s extraordinarily low. And so it’s a very, very tight labor market.

I wouldn’t saythat’s, you knowas a factual matter, that’s correct. We do need to see, you know, rents bottom out here or at least stay quite low in terms of their increases because we wantwe want the, you know, we want inflation to come down. And rental is, is a very large part of the CPIabout a thirdand it’s about half of that for the PCE. So it’s important. And so we’reit’s something that we’re watching very carefully. It’s part of the overall picture. I wouldn’t say it’s the decisive part, but take a step back. What you see is look atlook at core inflation over the past six months, a year. You’re just not seeing a lot of progressnot the kind of progress we want to see. And that, that’sit’s hard to avoid that. And, you know, the Committeepeople on the Committeethe median went up significantly, so that the median participant now thinks that core PCE inflation on a 12month basis will be 3.9 percent this year. So, once again, every year for the past three years, it’s gone up over the course of the year, and that’s doing that again. So we see that, and we see that inflation forecasts are coming in low again, and we see thatthat that tells us that we need to do more. And so we’rethat’s why you see the SEP withwhere it is.

So wages will continue to increase. So we, we, you knowwhat we’re talking about is having wage increases still at a very strong level but at a level that’s consistent with 2 percent inflation over time. And so I, I think we’ve seen some progressall, all of the major measures of wages have, have moved down from extremely elevatednot extremely elevatedhighly elevated levels a year or so ago, and they’re, they’re moving back down but, but quite gradually. And, and, you know, we want to see that, that process continue gradually. Of course, it’s great to see wage increases, particularly for people at the lower end of the income spectrum. But we want that as part of the process of getting inflation back down to 2 percent, which benefits everyone. I mean, inflation hurts those same people more than anyone else. People on a fixed income are hurt the worst, and the fastest, by high inflation.

So the topic of wages in the labor market and dynamics in the labor market couldis about as central a topic to our discussions as, as anything. I mean, it’s, it’s verylabor economics, you know, and the labor market are utterly central. You know, it’s half of our mandate. So we spend a lot of time talking about that. I think, you know, wethere, there are structural issues that are really not for the Fed. And so we don’t spend a lot of time although we take notice of, of what’s going on, but we’re not, you knowwe’re not involved in discussions or debates over, over strikes and things like that. But weyou know, we, we look, and we see what’s going on. And, you know, we’re making judgments about what it will take to get inflation down to 2 percent in the aggregate. And as I said, don’t think that was aboutI didn’tmost folks would say now it wasn’t really about thatabout wages at the beginning. And it’s becoming more about that as weas we get into really servicesector inflation, which is the part of the economy where we have seen the least progress.

So I’m trying to think where to start. I’ll start with commercial real estate. Weof course, we’re watching that situation very carefully. There’s a substantial amount of commercial real estate in the banking system. A, a large part of it is in smaller banks. It’s well distributedto the extent it’s well distributedthen, then the system could, could take losses. We do expect that there will be losses, but they’ll bethey’ll be banks that have concentrations, and those banks will experience larger losses. So we’re well aware of that. We’re monitoring it carefully. You know, it feels likeit feels like something that will be around for some time, as opposed to, you know, something that will suddenly hit and, and, you know, work its way into systemic risk. In terms of nonbank financialsfinancial sectorthere’s been a ton of work. And, you know, clearly in thein the pandemic, it really wasit was the nonbank financial sector where, where issues really arose. And, you know, there’s a lot of work going on inwith the Administration, in particular, leading that to try to address issues in the Treasury market and, and in all kinds of areas in the nonbank financial market. Andbut, you know, our jurisdiction at the Fed is over banksactually bank holding companies and some banks. So that’s, that’s really our main focus. You know, in terms of the events of Marchas I mentioned earlier, we will be carefully monitoring that situation. You know, our, our job generally involves worrying about a lot of things that may go wrong, and that would include the banks. It might be hard for me to identify something that we don’t worry about rather than that we do worry about. So we’re watching those things very carefully. And as we see things unfoldas we see what’s happening with credit conditions and, and also all the individual banks that are out there, you know, we’ll be able to take, to the extent it’s appropriate, we can take, if they’re macroeconomic implications, we can take that into account in our rate setting. And so I guess that’s what I would say.

So that’sand, and I wasI guess I meant to address that by saying as weas we watch, we’ll see what’s happening. And if weif we’re seeing the kind of tightening of conditions that, that you could be referring to, then we can factor thatbecause really, we’rewe use ourour rate tool is, is, you know, isit really has macroeconomic purposes. So we’ll, we’ll take that into account. Of course, we have responsibility for financial stability as well. And that also is a factor that we’re always going to be considering. Thank you very much.