Good afternoon. Before discussing today’s meeting, let me comment briefly on recent developments in the banking sector. Conditions in that sector have broadly improved since early March, and the U.S banking system is sound and resilient. We will continue to monitor conditions in the sector. We are committed to learning the right lessons from this episode and will work to prevent events like these from happening again. As a first step in that process, last week we released Vice Chair for Supervision Barr’s Review of the Federal Reserve’s Supervision and Regulation of Silicon Valley Bank. The review’s findings underscore the need to address our rules and supervisory practices to make for a stronger and more resilient banking system, and I am confident that we will do so. From the perspective of monetary policy, our focus remains squarely on our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I understand the hardship that high inflation is causing, and we remain strongly committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal. Price stability is the responsibility of the Federal Reserve. Without price stability, the economy does not work for anyone. In particular, without price stability, we will not achieve a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. Today, the FOMC raised its policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. Since early last year, we have raised interest rates by a total of 5 percentage points in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time. We are also continuing to reduce our securities holdings. Looking ahead, we will take a data dependent approach in determining the extent to which additional policy firming may be appropriate. I will

have more to say about today’s monetary policy actions after briefly reviewing economic developments. The U.S. economy slowed significantly last year, with real GDP rising at a below trend pace of 0.9 percent. The pace of economic growth in the first quarter of this year continued to be modest, at 1.1 percent, despite a pickup in consumer spending. Activity in the housing sector remains weak, largely reflecting higher mortgage, mortgage rates. Higher interest rates and slower output growth also appear to be weighing on business fixed investment. The labor market remains very tight. Over the first three months of the year, job gains averaged 345,000 jobs per month. The unemployment rate remained very low in March, at 3.5 percent. Even so, there are some signs that supply and demand in the labor market are coming back into better balance. The labor force participation rate has moved up in recent months, particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years. Nominal wage growth has sown  shown some signs of easing, and job vacancies have declined so far this year. But overall, labor demand still substantially exceeds the supply of available workers. Inflation remains well above our longer run goal of 2 percent. Over the 12 months ending in March, total PCE prices rose 4.2 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 4.6 percent. Inflation has moderated somewhat since the middle of last year. Nonetheless, inflation pressures continue to run high, and the process of getting inflation back down to 2 percent has a long way to go. Despite elevated inflation, longer term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by, by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I are acutely aware

that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. We are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation pose poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing the target range to 5 to 5¼ percent. And we’re continuing to [carry out] the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. With today’s action, we have raised interest rates by 5 percentage points in a little more than a year. We are seeing the effects of our policy tightening on demand in the most interest rate–sensitive sectors of the economy, particularly housing and investment. It will take time, however, for the full effects of monetary restraint to be realized, especially on inflation. In addition, the economy is likely to face further headwinds from tighter credit conditions. Credit conditions had already been tightening over the past year or so in response to our policy actions and a softer economic outlook. But the strains that emerged in the banking sector in early March appear to be resulting in even tighter credit conditions for households and businesses. In turn, these tighter credit conditions are likely to weigh on economic activity, hiring, and inflation. The extent of these effects remains uncertain. In light of these uncertain headwinds, along with the monetary policy restraint we have put in place, our future policy actions will depend on how events unfold. In determining the extent to which additional policy firming may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over time, the Committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments. We, we will make that determination meeting by meeting, based on the totality of

incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. And we are prepared to do more if greater monetary policy restraint is warranted. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longer term inflation expectations well anchored. Reducing inflation is likely to require a period of below trend growth and some softening of labor market conditions. Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. To conclude: We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

So, taking your question of course, today our decision was to raise the federal funds rate by 25 basis points. A, a decision on a pause was not made today. You will have noticed that in the in the statement from March, we had a sentence that said the Committee anticipates that some additional policy firming may be appropriate. That sentence is, is not in, in the statement anymore. We took that out, and instead we’re saying that, in

determining the extent to which additional policy firming may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over time, the Committee will take into account certain factors. So we that’s a  that’s a meaningful change that we’re no longer saying that we anticipate. And so we’ll be driven by incoming data meeting by meeting. And, you know, we’ll approach that question at the June meeting. So the the staff’s forecast is so let me say start by saying that that’s not my own most likely case, which is really that, that the economy will continue to grow at, at a modest rate this year. And I think that’s so different people on the Committee have different forecasts. That’s, that’s my own assessment of the most likely path. [The] staff produces its own forecast, and it’s independent of the forecasts of, of the participants, which include the Governors and the Reserve Bank presidents, of course. And we think this is a healthy thing  that the, the staff is writing down what they really think. They’re not especially influenced by what the Governors think, and vice versa. The Governors are not taking what the staff says and just writing that down. So it’s actually good that the, the staff and individual participants can have different perspectives. So, broadly, the forecast was for a mild recession, and by that I would characterize as one in which the rise in unemployment is smaller than is has been typical in modern era recessions. I wouldn’t want to characterize the staff’s forecast for this meeting. We’ll, we’ll leave that to the minutes but broadly, broadly similar to that.

RACHEL SIEGEL. Thank you,  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post. Thanks for taking our questions. I’m wondering if you can talk about the account of possible effects of a debt limit standoff. You’ve said repeatedly that the ceiling must be raised, but do you see any economics effects of even getting close to a default? And what type of situation would that look like?

So I wouldn’t want to speculate specifically, but I will say this: These are fiscal policy matters, for starters, and they’re, they’re for Congress and the Administration for the elected parts of the government to deal with. And they’re really consigned to them. From our standpoint, I would just say this: It’s essential that the debt ceiling be raised in a timely way, so that the U.S. government can pay all of its bills when they’re due. A failure to do that would be unprecedented. We’d be in uncharted territory, and the and the consequences to the U.S. economy would be highly uncertain and could, could be quite a[d]verse. So I’ll just leave it there. We, we don’t give advice to either side. We just would point out that it that it’s very important that this be done. And the, the other point I’ll make about that, though, is that no one should assume that the Fed can protect the economy from the potential, you know, short  and long term effects of a failure to pay our bills on time. We, we  it’s, it would be so uncertain that it’s just as important that, that this we never get to a place where we’re actually talking about or even having a situation where the U.S. government’s not paying its bills.

I wouldn’t say that it did. It was of course, it’s something that came up. We talk a lot about risks to the to the outlook, and that will that come up. A number of people did raise that as a risk to the outlook. I wouldn’t say that it was important in today’s monetary policy decision.

Sure. So the February 14 presentation I didn’t remember it very well. But now, of course, I’ve gone back and looked at it very carefully. I did remember it. And what it was was a general presentation. It was an informational briefing of the whole Board  the entire Board. I think all members were there. And it was about interest rate risk in the banks and, and lots of data. And there was one page on Silicon Valley Bank, which talked about, you know, the amount of losses they or mark to market losses they had in their portfolio. There was nothing in it about that I recall, anyway, about, about the risk of a bank run. So it was I think the takeaway was, they were going away to do a an assessment, a vertical sorry, horizontal assessment of, of banks. It wasn’t it, it wasn’t presented as an urgent or alarming situation. It was presented as a as an informational, nondecisional kind of a thing. And I thought it was a good presentation and, and, as I said, did remember it. In terms of what we’re doing of course, I think banks themselves are, are many, many banks are now, are attending to liquidity and taking opportunity now, really, since, since the events of, of early March, to build liquidity. And you asked about the separation principle. I  you know, like so many things, it, it’s very useful. But, you know, ultimately, it has its limits. I mean, I, I think in this particular case, we have found that the monetary policy tools and the financial stability tools are not in conflict. They’re both they’re working well together. We’ve used our, our financial stability tools to support banks through our lending facilities. And, at the

same time, we’ve been able to use our monetary policy tools to foster maximum employment and price stability.

Well, I mean, I didn’t say it wasn’t alarming. It was they’re pointing out something that they’re working on and that they’re on the case that, that, you know, that I’m not sure whether they mentioned I think they did, actually. They mentioned that they had taken regulatory action matter or supervisory action in the form of matters requiring attention. So I think that was also in the presentation. I think it was to say: Yes, this is a bank, and there are many other banks that are experiencing this these things, and we’re on the case.

So I, you know, we certainly don’t and I don’t have an agenda to further consolidate banks. There’s been consolidation has been a factor in the U.S. banking industry really since interstate banking and before that even it goes back more than 30 years. You when I was in the government a while back, I think there were 14,000 banks. Now there

are 4,000 and change. So that’s, that’s going on. I personally have long felt that having small , medium , and large size banks is a, a great part of our banking system. You know, the community banks serve particular customers very well; regional banks serve very important purposes, and the various kinds of G SIBs do as well. So I think it’s healthy to have a, you know, an arrange a range of different kinds of banks doing different things. I think that’s a positive thing. Is it a financial so I would just say, in terms of J.P. Morgan buying First Republic, the FDIC really runs the process of closing and selling a closed bank completely. That, that is their role, so I really don’t have a comment on, on that process. As you know, there’s an exception to the deposit cap for a failing bank. So it was legitimate. And I think the FDIC, I believe, is bound by law to take the bid that is the least cost bid. So I would assume that’s what they did.

So I, I think it’s probably good policy that we, we don’t want the largest banks doing big acquisitions. That is the policy. And but this is this is an exception for a failing bank. And I, I think it’s actually a good outcome for the banking system. It also would have would have been a good a good outcome for the banking system had one of the regional banks bought, bought this company. And that could have been the outcome. But, ultimately, we have to follow the law in our agencies, and the law is, it goes to the, the least cost bid.

Yeah. I think I think I follow that up by saying, it’s, it’s quite impossible to have a precise estimate of the words to that effect. But, in principle, that’s the idea. You know, when we we’ve been raising interest rates, and that raises the price of credit, and that, in a sense, restricts credit in the economy, working through the price mechanism. And, you know, when banks raise their credit standards, that can also make credit tighter in a kind of broadly similar way. It isn’t it isn’t possible to make a kind of clean translation between one and the other, although firms are trying that and, you know, we’re trying it. But, ultimately, we have to be we have to be honest and humble about our ability to make a precise assessment. So it does complicate the task of achieving, you know, a sufficiently restrictive stance. But I think, conceptually, though, we think that, you know, interest rates in principle, we won’t have to raise the rates quite as high as we would have had this not happened. The extent of that is so hard to predict because we don’t know how persistent these, these effects will be. We don’t know how large they’ll be and how long they’ll take to be transmitted. But that’s, that’s what we’ll be watching carefully to find out.

It’s that this is just something that we have to factor in as we as we want to find ourselves. So I guess I would say it this way: The assessment of, of the extent to which additional policy firming may be appropriate is going to be an ongoing one, meeting by meeting, and we’re going to be looking at the factors that I mentioned that they’re listed in, in

the statement, the obvious factors. That’s, that’s the way we’re going to be thinking about it. And that’s really all we can do. As I say, it does complicate we, we have, you know, a broad understanding of monetary policy. Credit tightening is a different thing. There’s a lot of literature on that. But translating it into, into rate hikes is uncertain, let’s say it adds even further uncertainty. Nonetheless, we’ll be able to see what’s happening with credit conditions  what’s happening with lending. We get there’s a lot of data on that. And, you know, we’ll, we’ll factor that into our decisionmaking.

That’s going to be an ongoing assessment. We’re going to need data to accumulate on that not an assessment that we’ve made, as that, that would mean we think we’ve reached that point. And I just think it’s, it’s not possible to say that with confidence now. But, nonetheless, you, you will know that the Summary of Economic Projections from the March meeting showed that in at that point in time, that the median participant thought that this was  this was the appropriate level of the of the ultimate high level of rates. We don’t know that. We’ll revisit that at the June meeting. And that’s you know, we’re just going to have to  before we really declare that, I think we’re going to have to see data accumulating and, and, you know, make that as I mentioned, it’s an ongoing assessment.

So we’re going to release the results of this SLOOS on May 8, in line with our usual time frame. And I would just say that the SLOOS is broadly consistent, when you see it, with how we and others have been thinking about the situation and what we’re seeing from other sources. You will have seen the Beige Book and listened to the various earnings calls that indicate that midsize banks have some of them had been tightening their lending standards. Banking data will show that lending has continued to grow, but the pace has been slowing really since the second half of last year.

Well, we the reason is that we again, with our monetary policy we’re try trying to reach and then and then stay at a, for an extended period, a level of policy a policy stance that’s sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. And, you know, that’s what we’re trying to do with our with our tool. I think slowing down was the right move. I, I think it’s enabled us to see more data, and it will continue to do

so. So I, I you know, we really you know, we have to balance. We always have to balance the risk of not doing enough and, and not getting inflation under control against the risk of maybe slowing down economic activity too much. And we thought that this rate hike, along with the meaningful change in, in our policy statement, was the right way to balance that.

Yeah. I mean, as I mentioned, I would just say that this assessment will be an ongoing one. You you know, you can’t with, with economic data, you, you can’t you’ve, you’ve seen take inflation for a minute. Look, look back. We’ve seen inflation come down move back up two or three times since March of 2021. We’ve seen inflation have a few months of coming down and then come right back up. So I think you’re going to want to see that you know, that a few months of data will, will persuade you that you’ve that you’ve got this right, kind of thing. And, you know, we, we have the luxury: We’ve raised 500 basis points. I think that policy is tight. I think real rates are probably that you can calculate them many different ways. But one way is to look at the nominal rate and then subtract a, a reasonable estimate of, of, let’s say, one year inflation, which might be 3 percent. So you’ve got 2 percent real rates. That’s meaningfully above what most people would many people, anyway, would, would assess as, you know, the neutral rate. So policy is tight. And you see that in interest  interest sensitive activities. And you also begin to see it more and more in, in other activities. And if you if you put the you put the credit tightening on top of that and the QT that’s, that’s

ongoing, I think, I think you feel like, you know, we’re, we may not be far off we’re possibly even at that level.

Look I think we’re always going to have 2 percent as our, our target. We’re always going to be focusing on getting there.

You know, it’s let me just say, that’s not what we’re looking for. We’re looking for inflation going down to 2 percent over time. I mean, we that’s, that’s not a question that’s in front of us, and it would depend on so many other things. But, ultimately, we’re not looking to get to 3 percent and then drop our tools. We have a, a goal of getting to 2 percent. We think it’s going to take some time. We don’t think it’ll be a smooth process. And, you know, I think we’re going to we’re going to need to stay at this for a while.

I think they, they you know, they, they will both matter equally at that point. Right now, you have a labor market that’s still extraordinarily tight. You still got 1.6 job openings, even with the lower job openings number, for every unemployed person. We do see some evidence of softening in labor market conditions. But, overall, you’re near a 50 year low in unemployment. Wages you all will have seen that the wage number from late

last week, and it’s whenever it was. And, you know, it’s, it’s a couple of percentage points above what would be what would be consistent with 2 percent inflation over time. So we do see some softening; we see new labor supply coming in. These are very positive developments. But the labor market is very, very strong, whereas inflation is, you know, running high well above our well above our goal. And right now, we need to be focusing on bringing inflation down. Fortunately, we’ve been able to do that so far without unemployment going up.

Yeah. I don’t think you know, I know what’s printed in the Summary of Economic Projections and all that. I don’t think you can deduce exactly what you said about what participants think, because you don’t know what they were thinking for first  quarter GDP at that point. They could have been thinking about a fairly low number. Anyway, in any case, I’ll just say, I, I continue to think that it’s possible that this time is really different. And the reason is, there’s just so much excess demand, really, in the labor market. It’s, it’s interesting, as, you know, we’ve raised rates by 5 percentage points in 14 months, and the unemployment rate is 3½ percent, pretty much where it was even lower than where it was when we started. So job openings are still very, very high. We see by surveys and much,

much [other] evidence that, that conditions are cooling gradually. But it’s it really is different. You know, it wasn’t supposed to be possible for job openings to decline by as much of the as they’ve declined without unemployment going up. Well, that’s what we’ve seen. So we there are no promises in this. But it just seems that, to me, that it’s possible that we can continue to have a cooling in the labor market without having the big increases in unemployment that have gone with many, you know, prior episodes. Now, that would be against history. I, I fully appreciate that. That would be against the, the pattern. But I do think that it that this, that the situation in the labor market, with so much excess demand, yet, you know, wages are actually wages have been moving down. Wage increases have been moving down, and that’s a good sign down to a more sustainable level. So I think that I think it’s still possible. I you know, I think, you know, the, the case of, of avoiding a recession is, in my view, more likely than that of having, having a recession. But it’s not it’s not that the case of having a recession is I don’t rule that out, either. It’s, it’s possible that we will have what I hope would be a mild recession.

Sure. So we look at a range of wage, wage measures. And then that’s in nominal. And then so you assume wages should be equal to productivity increases plus inflation. And so you can you can look at, you know, the employment compensation index, average hourly earnings, the Atlanta wage tracker, compensation per hour basically, those four and many others. And you can you can look at, at what the what they would have to run at over a long period of time for that to be consistent with 2 percent inflation. They can

deviate. You know, corporate margins can go up and down. And there is a feature of long expansions where they do go down where labor gets a bigger share toward later, later in a recession sorry, later in an expansion. So, yeah. The, the you know, and we calculate those, and you have to take the precision with a degree of a degree of salt. But I would say that what they will show is that, you know, if, if the if wages are running at 5 percent, 3 percent is closer to where they need to be. Wage increases and closer to 3 percent, roughly, is what it would take to get to be consistent with inflation over a longer period of time. I by the way, I don’t want to I do not think that wages are the principal driver of inflation. You’re asking me a very specific question. I think there are many things. I think wages and prices tend to move together. And it’s very hard to say what’s causing what. But, you know, I’ve never said that, you know, that that wages are really the principal driver, because I don’t think that’s really right.

So higher profits and higher margins are what happens when you have an imbalance between supply and demand: too much demand, not enough supply. And we’ve been in a situation in many parts of the economy where, where supply has been fixed or, or not flexible enough. And so, you know, the way the market clears is through higher prices. So to get, I, I think as goods pipelines have, have gotten, you know, back to normal so that we

don’t have the long waits and the shortages and that kind of thing I think you will see inflation come down. And you’ll see you’ll see corporate margins coming down as a result of return of full competition, where there’s enough supply to meet demand. And then it’s then it’s, then you’re really back to full competition. That’s that would be the dynamic I would expect.

I didn’t catch the last part. Rolling?

Oh, yes. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Okay, I got it. So, what are we looking at? I mean, we look at a combination of data and, and forecasts. Of course, the whole idea is to is to create a good forecast based on what you see in the data. So we’re always, always looking at both. You know, and it will of course, it’ll be the obvious things. It’ll be readings on inflation. It’ll be readings on wages, on economic growth, on the labor market, and all of those many things. I think a particular focus for us going now, over the past six, seven weeks now and going forward is going to be, what’s happening with credit tightening? Are small and medium sized banks tightening credit standards, and, and is that having an effect on, on loans, on lending? And, you know, so we can begin to assess how that fits in with monetary policy. That’ll, that’ll be an important thing. I just you know, we’ll be looking at everything. It’s 

again, I would just point out, we’ve raised rates by 5 percentage points. We are shrinking the balance sheet. And now we have credit conditions tightening not just in the normal way, but perhaps a little bit more, due to what’s happened. And we have to factor all of that in and, and make our assessment of you know, of whether our policy stance is sufficiently restrictive. And we have to do that in a world where policy works with long and variable lags. So this is challenging. But, you know, we, we will make our best assessment, and that’s what we think.

Yeah. So we on the Committee have a have a view that inflation is going to come down not so quickly, but it’ll take some time. And in that world, if that forecast is broadly right, it would not be appropriate and to cut rates, and we won’t cut rates. If you have a different forecast and, you know, markets or have been, from time to time, pricing in, you know, quite rapid reductions in inflation, you know, we’d, we’d factor that in. But that’s not our forecast. And, of course, the history of the last two years has been very much that inflation moves down. Particularly now, if you look at nonhousing services, it really, really hasn’t moved much. And it’s quite stable. And, you know, so we think we’ll have to demand will have to weaken a little bit, and labor market conditions, conditions may have to soften a bit more to begin to see progress there. And, again, in that world, it wouldn’t be it wouldn’t be appropriate for us to cut rates.

Sure. So we looked at that very carefully, as you would imagine. And, you know, the it’s, it’s really not contributing, we don’t think, now. It hasn’t actually been growing. You know, it moved up moved down and then moved back up to where it was. What happened in the when, when there were the big deposit flows, which, by the way, have really stabilized now what happened was, institutional investors took their uninsured deposits and put them in government money market funds, which bought paper from the Federal Home Loan Banks and things like that. Over the course of, of maybe the last year, retail investors had been gradual as they do in every tightening cycle, they’ve been gradually moving their deposits into higher yielding places such as CDs and, and other things, including money market funds. So that’s a gradual process that is quite natural and happens during a, a tightening cycle. What was unusual, really, was the institutional investors moving their uninsured deposits and spreading them around and things like that. But it doesn’t seem to have had any any effect overall on the overnight repo facility. That is really there to, to help us keep rates where they’re supposed to be, and it’s, it’s serving that purpose very well.

Yeah. I would just say, it’s  I, I don’t really think we should be  we shouldn’t even be talking about a world in which the U.S. doesn’t pay its bills. It just it just

shouldn’t be a thing. And, and again, I would just say, we don’t no one should assume that the Fed can do can really protect the economy and the financial system and our reputation globally from, from the damage that such, such an event might inflict.

So I, I didn’t I didn’t take part in creating the report or doing the work, but I do I have read it, of course. And I find it persuasive. I mean, I would say it this way: A, a very large a large bank, not a very large bank a large bank failed quite suddenly and unexpectedly in a way that threatened to spread contagion into the financial system. I think the only thing that, that I’m really focused on is to understand what went wrong, what happened, and, and identify what we need to do to address that. Some of that is may, it may just have been technology evolving. You know, we have to keep up with all that. But some of it may be our policies, and supervisory and regulatory, whatever. What our job is now is, identify those things and implement them. And that’s kind of the only thing I care about is and I think I feel like I am accountable for doing everything I can to make sure that that happens.

So I guess I would I guess I would say it this way. There were three large banks, really, from the very beginning that were at the heart of the stress that we  that we saw in early March, the severe period of stress. Those have now all been resolved, and all the depositors have been protected. I think that the resolution and sale of, of First Republic kind of draws a line under that period of is an important step toward drawing a line under that period of, of severe stress. Okay. I also think we are very focused on what’s happening with credit availability, particularly, you know, with what you saw in the in the Beige Book, and you will see in the SLOOS, is, is small and medium medium sized, small and medium sized banks who are feeling that they need to tighten credit standards build liquidity. What’s going to be the macroeconomic effect of that? More broadly, we, we will continue to very carefully monitor what’s going on in the banking system, and we’ll factor that assessment into our decisions in an important way, going forward.

Sure. So let me say, first of all, I’ve been Chair of the Board for five plus years now, and I fully recognize that we made mistakes. I think we’ve learned some

new things as well, and we need to do better. And, as I mentioned, I thought the report was unflinching and appropriately so. I welcome it. And I agree with and will support those recommendations. And I do feel that I’m personally accountable to do what I can to foster measures that will address the problems. So, on, on the Vice Chair for Supervision, you know, the place to start is, is the statutory role, which is quite unusual. The Vice Chair, it says, shall deploy policy recommendations “develop policy recommendations for the Board regarding supervision and regulation of depository institution . . . companies . . . , and shall oversee the supervision and regulation of such firms.” So this is Congress establishing a four year term for someone else on the Board not, not the Chair as Vice Chair for Supervision who really gets to set the agenda for supervision and regulation for the Board of Governors. Congress wanted that person to be to have political accountability for developing that agenda. So the way it works the way it has worked in practice for me is, I’ve had a good working relationship. I give my, my counsel, my input privately, and that’s I offer that. And I have good conversations, and I try to contribute constructively. I respect the authority that Congress has deferred on that person, including working with, with Vice Chair Barr and, and his predecessor. And I think that’s the way it’s supposed to work, and that’s appropriate. I, I believe that’s what the law requires. And, you know but, but it isn’t I wouldn’t say it’s a matter of complete deference. It’s more, I have a I have a role in, in presenting my views and discussing having an intelligent discussion about what’s going on and why. And, you know, that’s, that’s my input. But, ultimately, that person does get to set the agenda and gets to take things to the Board of Governors and really, in supervision, has sole authority over supervision.

I’ve had a few, sure. I mean, you know, who doesn’t look back and think that you could have done things differently? But, honestly, you don’t you don’t get to do that. Again, my focus is on what control the controllable. As one of my great mentors used to always say, “Control the controllable.” What we control now is, make a fair assessment, learn the right lessons, figure out what the fixes are, and implement them. And, and I think that, that Vice Chair Barr’s report is an excellent first step in that, but we’ve got to follow through.

So support for the 25 basis point rate increase was very strong across the board. I would say there are a number of people and, you know, you’ll see this in the minutes. I don’t want to try to do the head count in real time. But people did talk about pausing, but not so much at this meeting, you know, that we’re I mean, there’s a sense that we’re, we’re that, you know, we’re much closer to the end of this than to the beginning, that you know, as I mentioned, if you if you add up all the tightening that’s going on through various channels, it’s we, we feel like we you know, we’re getting close or, or maybe even there. But that, again, that’s going to be an ongoing assessment. And, and we’re going to be looking at those factors that we listed and to determine whether there’s, there’s more to do.

I don’t want to I couldn’t I couldn’t really say. I just think we’re I think we look, I think we’ve moved a long way fairly quickly. And I think we can afford to look at the data and, and make a careful assessment.

Well, I just would start with something that’s changed, really, which is this the run on Silicon Valley Bank was out of keeping with the speed of runs through history. And that now needs to be reflected in some in some way in regulation and in supervision. It we know now that we know it’s possible, I think we didn’t no one thought that was possible. No one I’m not aware of anybody thinking that this could happen so quite so quickly. So I think that, you know, that will play through. I, I, you know it will be up to Vice Chair Barr to really take the lead in designing the ways to address that. But I think I think that’s one thing. I, I guess I would just say that. Then, you know that we’re going to  obviously, we’re going to revisit [this]. It’s pretty clear we need to me, anyways clear that we need to strengthen both supervision and regulations for banks of this size. And I’m, I’m thinking that we’re on the on track to do that as well.

Yeah. That’s see, that’s, that’s what Vice Chair Barr’s role really is, and he’ll take the lead on that. Thank you.