Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dualmandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. The economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward our goals over the past two years. Labor market conditions are solid, and inflation has moved closer to our 2 percent longerrun goal, though it remains somewhat elevated. In support of our goals, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged. We also made the technical decision to slow the pace of decline in the size of our balance sheet. I’ll have more to say about these decisions after briefly reviewing economic developments. Economic activity continued to expand at a solid pace in the fourth quarter of last year, with GDP rising at 2.3 percent. Recent indications, however, point to a moderation in consumer spending following the rapid growth seen over the second half of 2024. Surveys of households and businesses point to heightened uncertainty about the economic outlook. It remains to be seen how these developments might affect future spending and investment. In our Summary of Economic Projections, the median participant projects GDP to rise 1.7 percent this year, somewhat lower than projected in December, and to rise a bit below 2 percent over the next two years. In the labor market, conditions remain solid. Payroll job gains averaged 200,000 per month over the past three months. The unemployment rate, at 4.1 percent, remains low and has held in a narrow range for the past year. The jobstoworkers gap has held steady for several months. Wages are growing faster than inflation and at a more sustainable pace than earlier in the pandemic recovery. Overall, a wide set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market are broadly in balance. The labor market is not a source of significant inflationary pressures. The median projection for the unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.4 percent at the end of this year and 4.3 percent over the next two years. Inflation has eased significantly over the past two years but remains somewhat elevated relative to our 2 percent longerrun goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in February and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.8 percent. Some nearterm measures of inflation expectations have recently moved up. We see this in both market and surveybased measures, and survey respondents, both consumers and businesses, are mentioning tariffs as a driving factor. Beyond the next year or so, however, most measures of longerterm expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.7 percent this year and 2.2 percent next year, a little higher than projected in December. In 2027, the median projection is at our 2 percent objective. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent. Looking ahead, the new Administration is in the process of implementing significant policy changes in four distinct areas: trade, immigration, fiscal policy, and regulation. It is the net effect of these policy changes that will matter for the economy and for the path of monetary policy. While there have been recent developments in some of these areas, especially trade policy, uncertainty around the changes and their effects on the economic outlook is high. As we parse the incoming information, we’re focused on separating the signal from the noise as the outlook evolves. As we say in our statement, in considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We do not need to be in a hurry to adjust our policy stance, and we are well positioned to wait for greater clarity. In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forwardan admittedly challenging exercise at this time in light of considerable uncertainty. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.9 percent at the end of this year and 3.4 percent at the end of next year, unchanged from December. While these individual forecasts are always subject to uncertainty, as I noted, uncertainty today is unusually elevated. And, of course, these projections are not a Committee plan or a decision. Policy is not on a preset course. As the economy evolves, we will adjust our policy stance in a manner that best promotes our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. If the economy remains strong and inflation does not continue to move sustainably toward 2 percent, we can maintain policy restraint for longer. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can ease policy accordingly. Our current policy stance is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. At today’s meeting, we also decided to slow the pace of decline in our balance sheet. Since we began balance sheet runoff, our securities holdings have declined by more than $2 trillion. While market indicators continue to suggest that the quantity of reserves remains abundant, we have seen some signs of increased tightness in money markets. Beginning in April, the monthly cap on Treasury redemptions will be lowered from $25 billion to $5 billion. Consistent with the Committee’s intention to hold primarily Treasury securities in the longer run, we are leaving the cap on agency securities unchanged. This action has no implications for our intended stance of monetary policy and should not affect the size of our balance sheet over the medium term. The Committee also continued its discussions as part of our fiveyear review of our monetary policy framework. At this meeting, we focused on labor market dynamics and our maximumemployment goal. As we have indicated, our review will include outreach and public events involving a wide range of parties, including Fed Listens events around the country and a research conference in May. Throughout this process, we will be open to new ideas and critical feedback, and we will take on board lessons of the last five years in determining our findings. We intend to wrap up the review by late summer. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy: maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. I will look forward to your questions.

Okay, so how much of it is, is tariffs? So let me say that it is going to be very difficult to have a precise assessment of how much of inflation is coming from tariffs and from, from otherand that’s already the case. You may have seen that goods inflation moved up pretty significantly in the first two months of the year. Trying to track that back to actual tariff increases, given what was tariffed and what was notvery, very challenging. So some of itthe, the answer is clearly some of ita good part of it is, is coming from tariffs. But we’ll bewe’ll be working, and so will other forecasters, to try to find the best possible way to separate nontariff inflation from tariff inflation. In terms of the, theyour, your sort of lookingthrough question, too soon to say about that. As, as I’ve mentioned, it, it can be the case that it’s appropriate sometimes to look through inflation if it’s going to go away quickly without action by, by us, if it’s transitory. And that can be the case in the case of, of tariff inflation. I think that would depend on the, the tariff inflation moving through fairly quickly and would depend critically, as well, on inflation expectations being well anchoredlongerterm inflation expectations being well anchored.

So I thinkI think that’s kind of the base case, but, as I said, it’s we really can’t know that. We’re going to have to see how things actually, actually work out. And the fact that there wasn’t much changeI think that’s, that’s partly because, you know, you seeyou see weaker growth but higher inflation. They kind of offset. And also, frankly, a little bit of inertia when itwhen it comes to changing something in this highly uncertain environment. You know, you’reyou, you know, I think there is a level of inertia where you just say, “Maybe I’ll stay where I am.”

So our inflation expectationsof course, we do monitor inflation expectations very, very carefullybasically, every source we can find, and, you knowshort term, longterm, households, businesses, forecasters, marketbased. And I think the picture, broadly, is this: You do see increases widely in shortterm inflation expectations. And people who fill out surveys and answer, you know, questionnaires are pointing to tariffs about that. If you lookin the survey world, if you look a little further out, you, you reallyyou really don’t see much in the way of an increased longerterm inflationinflation expectations are mostly well anchored, if you look at the [series maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of] New York, for example. Then you have market based, and it’s the same pattern. You know, people and markets are pricing in and, and breakevens, some higher inflation over the next year must be related to tariffs. We know from the surveys. But if you look out five years or fiveyear, five year forward, you’ll see that breakevens haveare either flat or, actually, slightly down in the case of a longerterm one. So we look at that, and we will be watching all of it very, very carefully. We do not take anything for granted. That’s at the very heart of our framework: anchored inflation expectations. But whatthat’s what you see right now.

So let’s start with the hard data. You know, we, we do see pretty solid hard data still. So growth looks like it’s maybe moderating a bit, consumer spending moderating a bit, but still at a solid pace. Unemployment’s 4.1 percent. Job creation, most recently, has been at a healthy level. Inflation has started to move up now, we think partly in response to tariffs, and there may be a delay in further progress over the course of this year. So that’s the hard data. Overall, it’s a solid picture. The, the survey data, [in the case of] both household and businesses, show significant rise in uncertainty and significant concerns about downside risks. So how do we think about that? And that’sthat is the question. As I mentioned the other day, as you pointed out, the relationship between survey data and actual economic activity hasn’t been very tight. There have been plenty of times where people are saying very downdownbeat things about the economy and then going out and buying a new car. But we don’t know that that will be the case here. We will be watching very carefully for signs of weakness in the real data. Of course we will. But I, Iyou know, given where we are, we think our policy’s in a good place to react to, to what comes. And we think that the right thing to do is, is to wait here for, you know, for greater clarity about, about what, what the economy’s doing.

So I, I do like that definition a lot. In fact, I used it at the recent conference where I spoke. So I think a world where, where people can make their daily economic decisions, and businesses, and they’re not having to think about the possibility of significantly high inflationwe know inflation will bounce around. That’s, that is price stability. You know, I think we were getting closer and closer to that. I wouldn’t say we were at that. Inflation was running around 2½ percent for some time. I do think with the arrival of, of the tariff inflation, further progress may be delayed, if the SEP doesn’t really show further downward progress on inflation this year. And that, that’s really due to the tariffs coming in. So, delayed, but if you look at our forecast, we do see ourselves getting back into the low 2s in ’26 and then down to 2 [percent] by ’27of course, highly uncertain. So I see progress having, having been made toward that, and then progress in the future. I think that progress is probably delayed for the time being.

So, again, people wrote down two cuts the last time, and they look atthey look at theyou know, theand they wrote down, you know, meaningful decline in growth out from 2.1 to 1.7 in 2025, a tick up in the unemployment rate, so not much there, but core inflation up by threetenths. And so those two kind ofthose kind of balance each other out. So peoplenot everybody, but, on balance, people wrote down similar numbers. The changes aren’t that big. The otherthe other factor, though, as I mentioned, is just really high uncertainty. What would you write down? I mean, it’s justit’s really hard to know how this is going to work out. And, again, we think our policy’s in a good place. We think it’s a good place where we can move in the direction thatwhere we need to. But in the meantime, we, weit’s, it’s really appropriate to wait for further clarity, and, of course, you know, the costs of doing that, given that the economy is still solid, are very low.

Yeah, so that’s a feature of thehas been for some time, a feature of this labor market. You have pretty high participation, accounting for aging. You’ve got wages that are consistent with 2 percent inflation, assuming that we’re going to keep getting, you know, relatively high productivity. We’ve got unemployment, you know, pretty close to its natural level. But jobthe hiring rate is quite low, but so is the layoff rate. So the, theyou look at initial claims or layoffs. So you’re not seeing people losing their jobs, but you’re seeing that people who don’t have a job having to wait longer and longer. And, you know, the question is, which way does that break? If we were to see a meaningful increase in layoffs, then that would probably translate fairly quickly into unemployment, because people areyou know, it’s, it’s not ait’s not a big hiring market. We’ve been watching that, and it’s just not in the data. It hasn’t happened. What we’ve had is, is a lowfiring, lowhiring situation, and it seems to be in balance now for, you know, for the last six, seven, eight months. That’s where we are. There’s healthy levels of job creation, too. So, overall, it’s a labor market that’s in balance, and, you know, we, we watch it very carefully.

In labor? Or in, in other?

I, you know, only in akind of an early way. I mean, it’s only been a few months, right? You know, for example, the, the layoffs that are happening here are, you know, they’re certainly meaningful to the people involved, and they may be meaningful to a particular neighborhood or region or area, but at the national level, they’re notthey’re not significant yet. But we don’t know. We don’t know whatwhere thathow far that will go. We’ll, we’ll find out much more. I mentioned thatyou, you saw itwe’ve had two, two very strong goods inflation readings in the last two months, which is very unexpected, and, I think, hard to trace it to specific tariffs. But it must haveit must have something to do withit’s either noise and it’ll come back, and thatthat’s very possible, too. But if it is persistent, then it must be to do with, you know, people buying ahead of tariffs, or raising prices ahead of tariffs, and things like that. Thatthose kinds of things happen, and they’re very, very hard to capture because so much of it is indirect. A great example is therewashing machines were tariffed in the last, last round of tariffs, and prices went up, but prices also went up on, on dryers, which were not tariffed. So the manufacturers just, you know, they just kind of followed the crowd and, and raised it. So things happen very indirectly, and so there’ll be a lot of work done in the coming months to, to try to trace all that through. But, ultimately, though, it’s too soon to be seeing significant effects in economic data.

When you say “last time,” are you talking about the last

You could have been talking about the last time there were tariffs.

In which case, the inflation was, was transitory.

Yeah. Noof course, we’re well aware of that. And, you know, it’s, it’s still the truth, if, if there’s an inflationary impulse that’s going to go away on its own, it’s not the right policy to, to tighten policy, because by the time you have your effect, you’reyou know, you’rean effect that byby design, you are lowering economic activity and employment. And if that’s not necessary, you don’t want to do it. In real time, as we know, it’s hard to make that judgment. Soand, and we’re well aware, you know, of what happened, obviously, with, with the pandemic inflation. But, I mean, we have to look at this as aas a different situation. There’s, there are differences and similarities. I mean, it’s a different time. You know, we haven’t had real price stability fully reestablished yet, and we have to keep that in mind. And, you know, we also havewe hear that people are very reluctant to take onto, you know, to, to allow prices to go up. At the same time, we hear that businesses are intending to pass many of these prices through. So it’s hard to say how this is going to work out.

You knowso we, we have two goals, right? We have maximum employment and price stability, and we have to balance those. And, you know, there can be situations in which they are in tension, right? And we have, actually have a provision in ourin our consensus statement that says what we should do in that case. That’s a very challenging, you know, situation for, for any central bank, and certainly for us. And so, what we say that we’ll do is, we’ll, we’ll look how far each of those two goals iseach of those two measures is from its goal, and then we’ll ask how long we think it might take to get back to the goal for each of them, and we’ll make a judgment, because our, you know, our tools work in one direction. We’re either tightening or loosening. So it’s a very challenging situation. Let me say, we don’t have that situation right now. That’s not what thethat’s not where the economy is at all. It’s also not where the forecast is. I don’t know any mainstream forecast that really shows significant problems like that, so

You know, there’s always an unconditional probabilitypossibility of, of a recession. It might be broadly in the range of one in four at any time, if you look back through, through the years. Itthere could be, within 12 months, a one in four chance of a recession. So the question is, is whether thatwhether this current situation, those possibilities are elevated. I will say this: We don’twe don’t make such a forecast. If you look at outside forecasts, forecasters have, have generally raiseda number of them have raised their possibility of aof a recession somewhat, but still at relatively moderate levelsyou know, still in the region of, of the traditional, because they were extremely low. If you go back two months, people were saying that the, the likelihood of a recession was extremely low. So, has moved up, but it’s not high.

So I think I, I did answer that question in this very room some time ago, and I, I [have] no desire to change that answer and have nothing new for you on that today.

So I, I mentioned it back then, but in no way did I place a huge weight on it. I think it, itthat was an ex post story, but it wasn’t the case. That was a referring to, the longerterm thingyou know, we look at it, and we don’t dismiss data that we don’t like. We, we force ourselves to look at it. But it is an outlier compared to marketbased and compared to other surveybased assessments of longerrun inflation expectations, so we’ve got to keep that in mind. And I, Iagain, I, I would just say, we look atwe look at all of them. And that onethat one’s kind of an outlier, but, you know, nonetheless, we, we take notice of it.

Yeah, look, we’re, we’re aware of thewe’re well aware of how things are going to evolve and the time frames and all that, and, you know, we willwe will use our tools to foster achievement of our goals to theto the best we can. And, of course, we’re going to try to be timely with that. For right now, the hard data are pretty solid. We, we are obviously aware of the soft sentiment data and high uncertainty, and we’re watching that carefully. And we think it’s a, a good time for us to wait for further clarity before we consider adjusting our, our policy stance.

Yes, I think we will. I justit’s hard to say when that will be. You know, we’rethese decisions are going to be made, and they’re going to be implemented, and then we’ll know. At that point, we’ll know what the decisions are, and we’ll have to make assessments then about their, their implications for the economy. Those things will happen. A lot of them will happen over the course of, you know, in coming months, certainly over the course of this year, and we’ll be adapting as we go.

So when we say “separating the signal from the noise,” that’s just a way of saying that things are highly uncertain and that, you know, you’re reading about developmentsthe news is full of developments of tariffs being put on and taken off and things like that. That’ssome of that is noise in the sense that it’s, it’s not really telling you anything. You’re trying to extract a signal from that, and the signal is what’s going to be the effect on economic activity, on inflation, on employment, and all those things. So, so that’s really when we say “signal and noise.” Sorry, the second thing was?

That’s, that’s sort of a, a special case of thatof, you know, with the idea beingand I thinkdo think that the first two months of this year are a great example. You’ve got high readings for goods inflation after a string of readings that averaged close to zero, and you have to askit’s coming during tariffs, but, you know, youit’s very hard to, actually, scientifically go back and match up those increases and say, “Yes, I can prove that that’s from tariffs.” But it kind of has to be, to some extent. Plus, noise. There can be idiosyncratic readings in various categories, which will shortly reverse, and that, that happens, too, and that could be a big piece of it. You know, I think we’ll know. In a couple of months, we’ll know whether those wereyou know, where that really was from. But it’s athat’s another case where I think it’s going to be very, very challenging to unpack the inflation that we see over the course of this year and be able to say with confidence how much of that came from inflation and how much of itsorry, from tariffsand how much of it didn’t. But that’s what we’ll be doing. We’ll be doing that, and so will everybody else, and we’ll all be trying very hard to, to make that assessment. And, you know, I, I’m sure we will make a lot of progress on that. And we already have. But it, it’s going to be a challenge.

You know, it would depend on what we’re talking about. I mean, obviously, you’re looking for direct evidence that, that particular pieces of, of inflation are, are or are clearly notcaused by tariffs. For example, something that was, you know, in the service sector that was far away from anything that’s tariffed. You, you might think, okay, well that is like, frankly, housing services inflationwhich, which, by the way, has been behaving well. You knowwhich, for, for some time, was kind of our problem. Now it’s beenit’s slow, but it’s definitely, you know, moving down in ain a very good way. It’s more now with goods and, to some extent, with, with nonhousing services inflation.

So I, I think if youyeah, I mean, remember, we came into this withat the December meeting, and the median was two cuts, the median was. And so you come in, and you see, broadly speaking, weaker growth but higher inflation. And they kind of balance each other out, so you thinkand, and unemployment is really, really only, only a one tenth change. So it’sthere’s just not a big change in the forecast. There really isn’t. Modest, you know, meaningfully higher growth and meaningfully higher inflation, which call for different responses, right? So they cancel each other out, and people just said, “Okay, I’m going to stay here.” But the second factor is, it’s so highly uncertain. Is justyou know, we’re sitting here thinkingand we, we obviously are in, in touch with businesses and households all over the country. We have an extraordinary network of contacts that come in through the Reserve Banks and put it in the Beige Bookand also through contacts at the Board. And we get all that, and we, we do understand that sentiment has fallen off pretty sharply, but economic activity has not yet. And so we’re watching carefully. So I would tell people that the economy seems to be seems to be healthy. We understand that, that sentiment is, is quite negative at this time, and that probably has to do with, you know, turmoil at the beginning of an Administration. It’s making, you know, big changes in, in areas of policy, and that’s probably part of it. I do think the underlying unhappiness people have about the economy, though, is moreis more about the price level.

Yeah, so, in the SEP, you’ll see that there’s not further progress on core inflation this year. We’re kind of side flatlining, going sideways. We don’t ask people to sayto write down how much of this is from tariffs and how much of it is not. But some of it is from tariffs. We know that tariffs are coming, and we know that they’re probably alreadyall, all forecasters have tariff inflation affecting core PCE inflation [and] core CPI inflation this year, without exception. I’m not aware of an exception. So it’s in there. I can’t tell you how much of that it is. In terms of the balance sheetso, yeah, weI thinkI guess the way I’d say it is, you know, it was the flows in and out of the, the TGA that got us thinking about it, but as we, you know, as we thought about it, we really came to the view that this was a good time to, to make the move that we made. And, broadly, Committee came aroundcame around to the view that we, we would do the same thing we’d already done, which is, once weI guess in June, we was it June? Whenever it was, we, we lowered the pace of QT, and we’re just going to do that again. We’re going to cut it roughly in half. And the sense of that is, if you’re cutting the pace of QT roughly in half, then the runway is probably doubled, okay? So it’s goingit’s going to be slower for longer. And people really liked that. People thought, “That’s, that’s a good idea.” You know, it’s like a plane. You can think of it like a plane coming in for a landing. As we get closer and weby the way, we still think that reserves are abundant, although you begin to see some of thesome of the things we look at begin to react a little bit, but we still think that they’re abundant. And, of course, now, the TGA is emptying out, so reserves are, are higher now, so you can’t really see the underlying signal. So we came around to the view, and, and it had a lot of appeal, and so we did it. It reallyit has no implications at all for monetary policy. It has no implications at all for the ultimate size of the balance sheet. It isn’t sending a signal in any hidden way that you can try to tease out. It’s just not there. We’re, we’re basicallyit’s very consistent with our plans and our practices that we’ve published and that we’ve followed since we began thiswhat is a very successful, you know, rundown of the balance sheet. Again, [this is] the second time that we’ve slowed the pace. And we’ve said that we would stop when we were somewhat above the level [of reserves] we judge as ample. And, clearly, we’re not at that level yet, but we’re going to be approaching it more slowly. It’s a commonsense kind of a kind of a thing, and it hadit had pretty broad appeal, I will say.

So when wewhen we talk about inflation expectations being well anchored, we’re talking about longerrun inflation expectations. And they really haven’t moved much, I mean, if at all. There, there’s one reading that everyone’s focusing on that’s higher, but the other survey readings and the marketbased readings all show relatively, you know, well anchored inflation expectations. You would expect that expectations of inflation over the course of a year would move around, because conditions change, and in this case, we have tariffs coming in. We don’t know how big, what’sthere’s so many things we don’t know, but we kind of know there are going to be tariffs, and they tend to bring growth down. They tend to bring inflation up at thein the first instance. So, so I would say, you, you know, I’m not dismissing what we’re seeing in shortterm inflation expectations. We, as I mentioned, follow that very carefully. But when we say expectations are well anchored, we’re really looking at, you know, longer term, five year and out, and there’s really no story to tell five years and out, either in market based or, or in surveys. But we keepwe’ll watch it. I mean, we’re not, you know, we’re, we’re not going to miss any evidence that longerterm or mediumterm inflation expectations are, are moving.

So that, that has been the case. We talked about that over the course of the last year. There werethere were some good number of months and times when a lot of the job creation was, was concentrated in, you know, educational institutions, health care, state governments, things like that. There were also times when privatesector job growth has been moving, moving in a healthy frameand they’re allthey’re all jobs, butand remember, we’re, you know, we’re at very low unemployment for, you know, for, for quite a time now. So I, I think it’s a good labor market, but it’slook, it’s something that we monitor carefully. From our standpoint, employment is employment. But I, you knowthe, the elected government is entitled to haveyou know, we, we don’t have policies that address different kinds of employment. But, but the elected government has ahas a different role, and they canthey, they can have those.

I think tapering itI, I don’t know. There’s no plan to do that. You know, at a certain point, we’ll stop runoff. And we may or may not stop MBS runoff, though, because, you know, we canwe canwe, we want to stop runoff in net at some point. We haven’t made any decisions about that, but, you know, we, we want thewe want the MBS to roll off our balance sheet. We really, strongly desire that, sobut we haven’t made any decisions about that, you know. We, we willweI think we’d, we’d look carefully at letting that keep going, but hold the overall size of the balance sheet in, you know, constant, at some pointa point that we’re not at yet.

I’m confident that we’re well positioned in the sense that we’re, we’re well positioned to move in the direction we’ll need to move. I, I mean, I, I don’t know anyone who has a lot of confidence in their forecast. I mean, the point is, we arewe are at, you know, we’re at a place where we can cut or weor we can hold what is a clearly a restrictive stance of policy. And that’s what I mean. I, I mean, I think we’rethat’s well positioned. Forecasting right now, it’syou know, forecasting is always very, very hard, and in the current situation, I just think it’suncertainty is, you know, remarkably high.

I, like, I, I think we’re not going to be in any hurry to move. And, as I mentioned, I think we’re, we’re well positioned to wait for further clarity, and not in any hurry.

Actually, it does not mean either of those things. You know, sometimes with language theyit, it lives its, its useful life, and then we take it off, and we and, and that was the case there. There’s really not meant to be any signal here. Over the past year, you know, conveying this sense of the balance of risks was important that they be in balance or close to being in balance. That was useful as we approach liftoff, if you remember. But we’re past that. Or, I’m sorry, nobeginning, beginning to cut. So we justso we just took it out. I, I actually would say that the more important thing now about risksand this is in, in pages like 10, 11, 12 of the SEPif you look, participants widely raised their estimate of, of the risks to ourof uncertainty, but also of the risks to growth in our employment and inflation mandates. That’s, that’s a more salient point now than whether they’rewhether they’re in balance.

So financial conditions matter to us because, you know, financial conditions are the main channel to the real economy through which our policy has its effect. So, so they’re important. But what matters from, from a Fed standpoint for the macroeconomy is material changes to overall financial conditions that are persistent, that last for a whilelong enough to actually affect economic activity. So that’s what we’re looking for. I, I’m not going to opine on the appropriate level of any marketequity, debt, commodities, or anything like that. And I would just point you to theto the bigger picture again. You know, the, the real economy, the, the hard data are still in, in reasonably good shape. It’s the soft datait’s the surveys that are showing, you know, significant concerns, downside risks, and those kind of things. We don’t dismiss that. We’re watching it carefully, but, you know, we, we don’t want to get ahead of that. You know, we, we want to focus on the hard data. Thisif it’sif that’s going to affect the hard data, we should know it very quickly, and, and, of course, we’ll, we’ll understand that. But you don’t see that yet.

Well, fortunately, we’re in a situation where we have seen inflation move down from, you know, higher levels to pretty close to 2 percent, while the unemployment rate has remained very consistent with full employment, 4.1 percent. So we now have inflation coming in from an exogenous source, but the underlying inflationary picture before that was, you know, basically 2½ percent inflation, I would say, and 2 percent growth, and 4 percent unemployment. So, so that’s whatthat’s what we did. That’s what, together, the economy accomplished. So I don’t see any reason to think that we’re looking at, at a replay of the ’70s or anything like that. You know, inflationunderlying inflation is, is, you know, still running in the 2s, with probably a little bit of a pickup associated with tariffs. So I, I don’t think we’re facingI, I wouldn’t say we’re in, in a situation that’s remotely comparable to that.

You know, Iit’s notit’s not appropriate for me to speculate on political ideas or, or fiscal policy, for that matter. So I’m going toI’m going to pass on that one. Thank you.

So, since the very beginning, we’ve had kind of a placeholderthe staff has a placeholder ofrange ofreally a range of possible outcomes from tariffs, and from trade policy generally. And they generally assume full retaliation in those. And so that’s, that’s kind of baked into the numbers. What happensit will be complicated, and there will be some retaliation and some not and, and all that, but, ultimately, they’re trying to, with the placeholder, give us a broad sense of what this might look like. Thiswhen we knowwhen we actually know the specifics, we’ll be able to, to have still uncertain but, you know, betterinformed forecasts. So, so, yes, that’s in there.

Yeah, so we, we looked at pausing, and we looked at, at slowing, and, really, people came together very strongly behind slowing, not pausing, for a variety of reasons. And so people really came to be, you know, pretty strongly in favor of, of this move. It slows down the path and probably lengthens ityou know, doubles it, effectively, by slowing it by half. That’s, that’speople thought that’s, that’s a good place to be. It’ll, it’ll, you know, help us assure that this path is, is a smooth one as we get closer and closer to that. So that’s how that came about.

You know, it wasit was actuallyit was the, the TGA flows Treasury General Account flows that got us thinking about this. But the more we thought about it, we came around to this. And, and, you know, it, it isyes, it was provoked. The original discussion was provoked by that. But I think what we came up with, though, was broader than that and different than it. It does address that issue, but it really is alsoit fits in really nicely with our principles and our plans, and the things we’ve done before, and the things we’ve said we would do. So that’s why Iyou know, pretty, pretty strong support. I’d just say it’s, it’s nothing to do with monetary policy, nothing to do with the size of the balance sheet. It’s just kind of a commonsense adjustment as you get closer and closer. Let’s slow down a little bit again. And, that way, we’ll be more and more confident that we’re getting where we need to get. You can take your time getting there. You know, we’re shrinking the balance sheet every month, and we think that’swe think it was a good play and, as I mentioned, well supported. Thanks very much.