Good evening, everyone. Today the Federal Reserve took a number of actions to support American families and business and the economy overall and to promote the flow of credit as we weather disruptions caused by the coronavirus. The virus is having a profound effect on people across the United States and around the world. On behalf of my colleagues at the Federal Reserve, our first concern is for those who’ve been harmed. Families, businesses, schools, organizations, and governments at all levels are taking steps to protect people’s health. These measures, which are essential for containing the outbreak, will nonetheless understandably take a toll on economic activity in the near term. While the primary response to this challenge will come from our healthcare providers and policy experts, economic policymakers must do what we can to ease hardship caused by the disruptions to the economy and to support a swift return to normal once they have passed. The Federal Reserve’s role is guided by our mandate from Congress to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people, along with our responsibilities to promote the stability of the financial system. Today we reduced the target range for our policy interest rate by 1 percentage point, bringing it close to zero, and said that we expect to maintain the rate at this level until we’re confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. In addition, we took other actions to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. Before describing our actions more fully, I will share how my colleagues and I currently view the economic outlook. The economy came into this challenging period on a strong footing. The unemployment rate was 3.5 percent in February and has been at or near halfcentury lows for almost two years. Job gains have been running at a solid pace, well above what is needed to provide jobs for new entrants into the labor market. Participation in the labor force by people in their prime working years remained near its highest rate in more than a decade. And wages have been rising, particularly for lowerpaying jobs. Overall economic activity has been expanding at a moderate rate, even though weak growth abroad and trade developments have been weighing on some sectors. U.S. banks are strong, have high levels of capital and liquidity, and are well positioned to provide credit to households and businesses. Against this favorable backdrop, the virus presents significant economic challenges. Like others, we expect that the illness and the measures now being put in place to stem its spread will have a significant effect on economic activity in the near term. Those in travel, tourism, and hospitality industries are already seeing a sharp drop in business. In addition, the effects of the outbreak are restraining economic activity in many foreign economies, which is causing difficulties for U.S. industries that rely on global supply chains. The weakness abroad will also weigh on our exports for a time. Moreover, the energy sector has recently come under stress because of the large drop in global oil prices. Inflation, which has continued to run below our symmetric 2 percent objective, will likely be held down this year by the effects of the outbreak. Financial conditions have also tightened markedly. The cost of credit has risen for all but the strongest borrowers, and stock markets around the world are down sharply. Moreover, the rapidly evolving situation has led to high volatility in financial markets as everyone tries to assess the path ahead. In the past week, several important financial markets, including the market for U.S. Treasury securities, have at times shown signs of stress and impaired liquidity. The market for Treasury securities is a critical part of the foundation of the global financial system. It is generally the most liquid of all markets and serves as the benchmark by which many other financial assets are valued. It plays an important role in allowing households and firms to earn a safe return and manage their risks. When stresses arise in the Treasury market, they can reverberate through the entire financial system and the economy. To prevent this from happening and to support the smooth functioning of the Treasury market, we announced today that we will purchase at least $500 billion of Treasury securities over the coming months. Similar stresses have also emerged in the market for agency mortgagebacked securities, which is closely linked to the Treasury market and critically supports the ability of people to get a mortgage to buy a house or refinance an existing mortgage. To improve the functioning of this market and to ensure the effective transmission of monetary policy to borrowers in the economy, we will also purchase at least $200 billion of agency mortgagebacked securities over coming months and immediately cease the runoff of these securities in our portfolio. While the primary purpose of these securities purchases is to restore smooth market functioning so that credit can continue to flow, the purchases will also foster more accommodative financial conditions. The Federal Reserve announced a number of other actions today to support the flow of credit to households and businesses, thereby promoting our maximum employment and price stability goals. Of these, I will highlight two. First, we reduced the interest rate on discount window loans by 1½ percentage points, bringing that rate to ¼ percent. The discount window plays an important role in supporting liquidity and stability in the banking system, and we encourage banks to turn to the discount window to help meet demands for credit from households and businesses. To make the discount window more effective, we will also offer discount window loans for periods up to 90 days. Because of the importance of the U.S. dollar in the global economy, strains in markets for borrowing and lending dollars overseas can disrupt financial conditions here in the United States. To guard against such disruptions, the Federal Reserve maintains swap lines with five major central banks. When dollar funding pressures emerge abroad, those central banks can contain the pressures in their jurisdictions and prevent them from impeding the flow of credit here at home. To address potential pressures in these markets during the current period of elevated uncertainty, we made a coordinated announcement with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National Bank to reduce the pricing on our dollar swap lines. In addition, our central bank counterparts will begin offering dollars to institutions in their jurisdictions for a term of 84 days in addition to the usual oneweek operation. These longstanding arrangements carry no risk to the Federal Reserve or to the American taxpayer. I won’t go into detail on the other actions we took today, but they involved eliminating reserve requirements for banks and encouraging banks to make use of intraday credit with the Federal Reserve and to use their capital and liquidity buffers as they support lending to households and businesses. The actions we have announced today will help American families and businesses and, indeed, our entire economy weather this difficult period and will foster a more vigormore vigorous return to normal once the disruptions from the coronavirus abate. We will continue to closely monitor economic and financial developments and their implications for the economic outlook. We are prepared to use our full range of tools to support the flow of credit to households and business, to help keep the economy strong, and to promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. Finally, let me note that today’s FOMC meeting today was in lieu of the meeting scheduled for next Tuesday and Wednesday. Thank you. I’ll beI’ll be happy to take a few of your questions.

Thank you. So, based on our discussions today and many conversations with participants, it’s fair to say that we have a range of views about the path of the economy, as is always the case with the Fed. But, in general, I’d say that we see the U.S. economy as having been in quite a strong position before the arrival of the virus. We see that it is likely that the measures we take to protect ourselves from the virus will involve withdrawing from or reducing certain activitiesthinking there of travel, leisure, hospitality, those things and that’s going to mean lower economic activity for a period of time. These are choices that we make to protect ourselvesappropriate choices that we make to protect ourselves from the virus. So that means that the second quarter is probably going to be weakin fact, in the view of many, output decliningoutput lower in the second quarter than it was in the first quarter. After that, it’s very hard to say how big the effects will be or how long they will last. And that’s going to depend, of course, on how widely the virus spreads, which is something that is highly uncertain, and I would say, in fact, unknowable. We do know that the virus will run its course and that the U.S. economy will resume a normal level of activity. In the meantime, the Fed will continue to use our tools to support the flow of credit to households and businesses and support demand with monetary policy ultimately, to do what we can to see that the recovery is as vigorous as possible. You also asked about other facilities. I would point out that we have, of course, responded very strongly not just with interest rates, but also with liquidity measures today. And we believe that what we did today will be beneficial to financial markets generally. And as I said in my statement, we’re prepared to use our full range of tools to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. Thanks.

So, as I’ve noted on a number of occasions, really, the Committee as you know, we did a yearpluslong study of our tools and strategies and communications. And we, really, at the end of that, and also when we started out, we view forward guidance and asset purchasesasset purchases and also different variations and combinations of those tools as the basic elements of our toolkit once the federal funds rate reaches the effective lower bound so, really, forward guidance, asset purchases, and combinations of those. You know, we looked at negative policy rates during the Global Financial Crisis, we monitored their use in other jurisdictions, we continue to do so, but we do not see negative policy rates as likely to be an appropriate policy response here in the United States.

So let me tell you how, I thinkwhat our tools can accomplish, andand really what they’re not designed to accomplish. So what our liquidity operationsand I’ll talk specifically about the Treasury and MBS purchasesare designed to do is to assure the proper functioning of the Treasury and MBS markets. The Treasury market is one of the most important, perhaps the most important, market in the world. It’s probably the most liquid large market in the world. The MBS market is very important: It’s closely linked to the Treasury market, and it’s the way that our monetary policy decisions flow through to borrowers in the real economy. So, two very important markets. And they had reached levels of very high illiquidity, andto the point where weas you know, last week we offered financingvery large amounts of financing. And after that, we bought assets across the curve to try to support liquidity and return to normal function. And we found that that helped, but, nonetheless, we thought we had to do more. And we knew what we had to do, which was the asset purchase programs that we did today. And those are designed to restore those key markets to normal function. Now, why is that important toto everyone? These markets are part of the foundation of the global financial system and of the United States financial system. And if they are not functioning well, then other marketsthen that will spread to other markets. And those are the markets thatthat amount tothatwhere households and businesses typically get credit. So we know that dysfunctional financial marketsa dysfunctional financial system, really, can have very big negative effects on the economy. We saw that during the financial crisis. This is a very different situation, but, nonetheless, we thought it was quite important for us to take strong measures to supportto support proper market function in these important markets. Now, you asked about households. It’s true, we don’t have the tools to reach individuals and particularly small businesses and other businesses and people who may be out of work or whose businesses may notmay experience a period of very low activity. We don’t have those tools. We have the tools that we have, and we use them. I think we’ve used them quite aggressively for the benefit of the public. But this is a multifaceted problem, and it requires answers from different parts of the government and society. I mean, I think that, by far, the most important is the response of the healthcare workers and healthcare policymakers. After that, fiscal policy. We’ve had one round of fiscal policy, another coming. I think fiscal policy is a way to direct relief, really, to particular populations and groups. Monetary policy has a role, and it really is in, you knowour original role was providing liquidity to financial systems when they’re under stress, and that’sthat’s really part of what we did today. The other role is to support demand through lower interest rates, and we did that. Youyou asked about fiscal as well, and I guess I’ve sort of covered that. We do think fiscal response isis critical, and we’re happy to see that those measures are being considered, and wewe hope they are effective.

Right. So, onon inflation, you know, thethe economy’s performed so well, really, over the last few years, and right up through January: historically low unemployment50yearlow unemployment for a couple of years, 11 yearsalmost 11 years of expansion so far, and yet inflation lingered below 2 percent. So we’ve been concerned that inflation not move down further. It’s not at all a question of deflation. It was a question of not getting inflation up to our target on a robust, symmetric kind of a way. So, with this coronavirus arriving, we judged that thethe net effects of this will be to to have inflation move down even a little bit more. And it’sit’s not a questionit’s notit’s not an issue of deflation. Again, it’s just an issue of inflation probably falling even a bit further. We expect, with uncertainty, that, you knowthat it will fall a little bit further, at least, below where it has been. We areof course, we don’t have the legal authority to buy other securities other than the ones we already buy, and we’re not seeking authority to do so. We haven’t discussed that at theat the FOMC, and it’s notit’s not legal authority that we’re seeking.

So whatwhat I can tell you definitively is what the purpose of the asset purchases was, and I mentioned this in my statement. And it really is to support the availability of credit in the economyhouseholds and businessesand thereby support the overall economy. How do they do that? They do that by supporting proper market functioning in the Treasury market and the MBS market. So you seeand I think you’ll seeas these purchases roll forward, you will see the Treasury market and the MBS market returning to normal market function, and that will actually support economic activity. That will be a positive for economic activity. In terms of what it’s labeled, that’s of less interest to me. I really think we are very clear in our minds what we’re doing this for and what the logical effects would be, which would be which would be both better market function andandyou know, when there’s better market function, it will beyou know, policy will be supporting the economy better.

Okay, sosorry.

What was it again? What was the question again? Just tell me. I can’t read my writing. [Laughter]

Ah, okay, great.

Okay, sorry. So that’s the “in coming months” language. Let me tell you what we were doing there. So there’s no monthly cap here. There's no weekly cap. The Desk is going to go out, and it’s going to buy at a strong rate that isthat we think will restore market functionrestore liquidity as quickly as it can be restored. And that language is open ended, and it’s meant to send a signal to the market thatthat, you know, we’re not going to be bound by, for example, $60 billion a month or anything like that. We’re going to go in strong starting tomorrow, and we’re going to buy across the curve, and we’re going to buy MBS, and we’re really going to use our tools to do what we need to do here, which is restore these important markets to normal function. So thatthat’s really what that is. As far asas the policy rate, what we’ve said is that we will maintain the rate at this level until we’re confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. So, you can see, that’s the test we’ve written down. And if youif you look at it, you’ll see that some things have to happen before we’d considerwe’d have to become confident ofthat the economy has weathered these recent events and also is on track to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. So that’s a test we’ll be looking at, and I think it suggests that, you know, we’re going to be watching and willing to be patient, certainly.

Well, I would say this. You know, we have different tools. I think we do, actually, work pretty closely with the Treasury Department andand cooperate with them on things, with clear lines of delineation. For example, the Treasury Department has authority over fiscal policy. That’s not our job. It’s their job, with other parts of the Administration. It’s just thatlike that for us with monetary policy. We have sole responsibility for monetary policy and strong instructions from Congress to conduct it in an independent, nonpolitical way. So those two things areone for each of us. But in the middle there, there are areas where wewhere we can cooperate. And also, there’s a long history. You would want the finance ministry and the treasury [and the central bank] to be talking in every major economy in the world. You would want them to be regularly exchanging informationprofessional relationships not just at the, you know, the Chairto TreasurySecretary level, but also through the organization. For example, the New York Fed is the Treasury’s agentfiscal agent, as you know, so there’s a lot that goes into debt management and the issuance of debt, which happens at the New York Fed. So I think we do, actuallywe have professional, good working relationships up and down the chain there, and, you know, thatthat seems to me to be working. And there isthere’s also quite a lot of coordination in other respects withof course, with foreign central banks, but you didn’t ask about that.

So I feel fine. I feel very well, and so there’s no reason for me to be tested. We are observingwe’re trying to model good behavior here, so we’re observing quite a lot of teleworking. And also, we’reyou know, we’re not having a lot of big, crowded meetingswe’re not having any big, crowded meetings. So we’re trying to observe all of the things that the professionals tell us to do. I do expect to do some teleworking because I want to model thatthat it’s okay for the people to do so. In fact, it’s important for them to do so. So I will do that. In terms of ourof our toolkit, let me say first that, you know, I think we do have plenty of space to adjust our policy. I mentioned our liquidity toolsyou know, we have a lot of power in our liquidity tools, and, as I mentioned, we’re prepared to use them. In addition, we’ve got plenty of space left to offer forward guidance, asset purchases, and adjust those policies, so I think we do have room. Wewe have not at all made a decision to request furtherfurther tools or authorities from Congress, no. Wewe have not made that decision. It is not something we’re actively considering right now.

So why noI guess you’re asking, why no SEP, and what’s our forecast? So a couple reasons we didn’t do an SEP. First, we decided on Thursday to move the meeting up by three days to today, and that’s before the SEPs are generally filed. They hadn’t been filled out, and wefrankly, we spent our time focused on getting ready to make these announcements. Second, and, you know, a number of FOMC participants had already reached out to make the point that the economic outlook is evolving on a daily basis, and it really is depending heavily on the spread of the virus and the measures taken to affect it and how long that goes on. And that is just not something that’s knowable. So, actually, writing down a forecast in that circumstance didn’t seem to be useful, and, in fact, it could have been more of an obstacle to clear communication than a help. I do expect that we’ll return to the quarterly regular quarterly cycle in June, however. In terms of the forecast, so, as I mentioned, you know, we see the U.S. economy starting out strongfrom a strong position, differentdifferent as weas we talked through it today. People have a range of perspectives on the way the year is going to go, but I think there’s a pretty broad sense that the second quarter will be a weak quarter, with probably outyou know, output declining a bit. After that, it becomes hard to say, you know, what’ll happen in the third and fourth quarters and thereafter, and it’s going to depend, again, onon the path of the virus. So the thing we do know is that we’ll be here doing our job and supporting the flow of credit and there to do what we can when the recovery comes to make it as vigorous as possible.

So, in terms of fiscal policy, I think in the first instanceand you’reyou’re seeing some of this nowis the thing that fiscal policy and, really, only fiscal policy can do is reach out directly to affected industries, affected workers, and we’ve seen some of that. So, that’sthat’s an important job for fiscal policy. More broadly, after that, there’s the question ofof fiscalbroader fiscal stimulus, and I think that’ll depend on the path of the economy. II think there is such a wide range of possibilities here that it’s someit’s very hard to predict. But there could certainly bethere could certainly be, you know, a need for that. And your second question waswhat was your second question?

Well, I think, in the very near term, we’re going to be looking at, you know, the Treasury market function. We’re really going to be looking to see that financial markets are returning to more liquid, more normal functioning. That is an essential part of our job. That isactually, you know, that is the thing that central banks were originally designed to do, was to provide liquidity to financial systems in stress, so we take that job very seriously. It’s probably the most important thing we’re doing now is that. So we’ll be watching that and we’ll be prepared to use our tools when and as appropriate to addresstoto support market functioning and really to support the flow of credit to households and businesses. Those are the things I’ll be looking at. You know, in terms of economic data, I think it’s just so early. You know, we’re really lookingI mean, the economic data will follow the data on the spread of the virus. You know, I think what happenswhat happens during the spread of the virus is probably not going to tell you a lot about where the economy will be in six months. It’s going to be because you may have ayou probably have a bad quarter in the second quarter, but if things get better in the third quarter, that probably won’t matter so much. We may be able to come back from that. If it lasts longerso that’s really what I’ll be looking for, isis what is going to be the spread of the virus and what’s the path it’s going to take and what are the effects on the economy.

So I guess your first question is, howhow do we think about the timethe time for this thing? You knowand the truth is, we just don’t know, and, you know, the experts we talk to will say that they don’t know, and that it’s, in fact, unknowable. It’s going to depend on a number of things. First, it’s the measures that we take to, you know, towith the social distancing, and theall the things businesses and school and everyone’s doing now. And that will depend, to some extent, on how compliant people are. You can see that some countries have had ahave been able to, through aggressive measures and really high compliancehave been able to bend the curve andand do that. And whether we succeed oryou know, that’s really the question. And I wouldn’tI wouldn’t, you knowI’ll resist the impulse to guess. I really don’t know what that will be. In terms of the toolbox, as I mentioned, we think we have plenty of policy space left, plenty of power left in our tools, and I would point in particular to the liquidity tools. That, I think, isis right now the most important thing that we’re doing. Our interest rates will mattercuts will matter now to borrowers who will get some relief from our cuts, but they’ll matter a lot more when the economy begins to recover. Sobut in the forefront now are the liquidity tools andand getting that job done well. In addition, as I mentioned, weyou know, we have room to provide forward guidance, to do more asset purchases. I think therethere is room for us to do what we need to do. II would just close, though, by saying that, you know, typically, fiscal policy does play a major role whenwhen there are downturns. You sawyou’ve seen that in many past downturns, and that’s beyond just the automatic stabilizers. Sometimes fiscal policy comes in on a discretionary basis, and thatthat will probably need to be the case here as well.

FSOC is really something that the Treasury Secretary chairs. And it’s a big groupit’s got a lot of people. I think it serves a good purpose. But, you know, you should know that we are, of course, in regular contact with the other regulatory agencies, constantly talking about what’s going on in markets. There’s a lot of information and conversation on an ongoing basis there, I would say. Soand the same is true with our central bank contacts around the world. We’re in ongoing contact with all the major central banks around the world, talking about what’s going on. We’re having group calls, we’re calling one onone, so there’s quite a lot of information being exchanged there. And then, your question was, nonbank SIFIs. You know, again, that’s a judgment for thethat’s a judgment for the FSOC. Iyou know, I’m comfortable with the actions that we’ve taken, and ifif we do identify, you know, a systemically important nonbank institution, then we wouldn’t hesitate to designate it, butalthough I guess now we’re working more on activities, but we do still have the power to designate institutions, so

I’m sorry, the question was

Well, yes. I would say, you know, that’sthat’s something that happens when markets are as volatile as they are, when you’re having these big market movements while markets are trying to understand what’s going on. They’re trying to reach a view onin high uncertainty, and that’s why you see lots and lots of volatility. I think there’s more risk to financial stability in an era likelike that than there is when things are really placid, and, you know, we’re going home at 4 o’clock and kind of bored over here. That’s not the case right now. So, financial stabilityI would say thosethose risks do rise at a time of high volatility, particularly a time where we’re presentingpresented with a challenge that isis kind of unique, reallyit’s not something we’ve all done before. I also want to add, though, that, you know, we’re strongly focused on financial stability. We monitor it carefully. We’ve built a very resilient financial system. The banks are highly capitalized, lots of liquidity, much better at understanding and managing their risks, their resilience to stress. So our financial stability focusour focus on an event like this over the last 10 years will pay dividends, in the sense that you have a much more resilient financial system than you’ve had before.

Thank you. Yes, so we saw, and everyone saw, that liquidity had become very strained in Treasury and MBS markets, and we decided to offer very large quantities of term and overnight repo to address that. That makes it easier to finance the purchase of repossorry, of Treasuries and MBS. So we did that, and as you pointed out, the takeup was not as high as many had expected, and I didwe did learn something from that. We thought that was worth doing, and what we learned was that we needed to go direct here rather than trying to intermediate through the dealers. And so we realized at that point that we would need to actually purchase securities for our portfolio, so we did that on Friday. We boughtthe next day, Friday, we went in and we bought across the curve, and we bought, I think, $37 billion worth of securities, and then we saw what happened with that. We saw that market function improved a little bit, but still it wasn’t what we needed. And that’s why we brought together the full FOMC and had our meeting this afternoon and announced these measures this evening, which are strong measures, with the broad support of the Committee to provide really substantial amounts of liquidity. And II think you can see us working through different solutions andand finding the one that we think really will work and then acting quite vigorously, quite aggressively tonight to implement it.

We have given broad general guidance to the banks. We’d like them to use their buffers to provideyou know, to provide loans andand also to work with their borrowers. As you can see, we’re providing a lot of guidance to them across a wide range, and they’re saying they have every intention of doing that. That’s good to hear. Andso we’ll see how that works out. Therethere are a lot of discussions going on, and, you know, we hear the banks saying, that’s exactly what they’re going to do, so that’s a good thing. You know, we’reof course, we’vewe’rewe have nothing to announce onon 13(3) powers, but, you know, of course, wethat’s part of our playbook inyou know, in any situation like this. So, as I said, we’rewe’re prepared to use our authorities as is appropriate toyou know, to support borrowing and lending in the economy, and, hence, to support the availability of credit to households and businesses.