Good afternoon. Before discussing today’s meeting, let me briefly address recent developments in the banking sector. In the past two weeks, serious difficulties at a small number of banks have emerged. History has shown that isolated banking problems, if left unaddressed, can undermine confidence in healthy banks and threaten the ability of the banking system as a whole to play its vital role in supporting the savings and credit needs of households and businesses. That is why, in response to these events, the Federal Reserve, working with the Treasury Department and the FDIC, took decisive actions to protect the U.S. economy and to strengthen public confidence in our banking system. These actions demonstrate that all depositors’ savings and the banking system are safe. With the support of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board created the Bank Term Funding Program to ensure that banks that hold safe and liquid assets can, if needed, borrow reserves against those assets at par. This program, along with our longstanding discount window, is effectively meeting the unusual funding needs that some banks have faced and makes clear that ample liquidity in the system is available. Our banking system is sound and resilient, with strong capital and liquidity. We will continue to closely monitor conditions in the banking system and are prepared to use all of our tools as needed to keep it safe and sound. In addition, we are committed to learning the lessons from this episode and to work to prevent episodesevents like this from happening again. Turning to the broader economy and monetary policy: Inflation remains too high, and the labor market continues to be very tight. My colleagues and I understand the hardship that high inflation is causing, and we remain strongly committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal. Price stability is the responsibility of the Federal Reserve. Without price stability, the economy does not work for anyone. In particular, without price stability, we will not achieve a sustained period of longof strong labor market conditions that benefit all. The U.S. economy slowed significantly last year, with real GDP rising at a belowtrend pace of 0.9 percent. Consumer spending appears to have picked up this quarter, although some of that strength may reflect the effects of swings in the weather across the turn of the year. In contrast, activity in the housing sector remains weak, largely reflecting higher mortgage rates. Higher interest rates and slower output growth also appear to be weighing on business fixed investment. Committee participants generally expect subdued growth to continue. As shown in our Summary of Economic Projections, the median projection for real GDP growth stands at just 0.4 percent this year and 1.2 percent next year, well below the median estimate of the longerrun normal growth rate. And nearly all participants see the risks to GDP growth as weighted to the downside. Yet the labor market remains extremely tight. Job gains have picked up in recent months, with employment rising by an average of 351,000 jobs per month over the last three months. The unemployment rate remained low in February at 3.6 percent. The labor force participation rate has edged up in recent months, and wage growth has shown some signs of easing. However, with job vacancies still very high, labor demand substantially exceeds the supply of available workers. FOMC participants expect supply and demand conditions in the labor market to come into better balance over time, easing upward pressures on wages and prices. The median unemployment rate projection in the SEP rises to 4.5 percent at the end of this year and 4.6 percent at the end of next year. Inflation remains well above our longerrun goal of 2 percent. Over the 12 months ending in January, total PCE prices rose 5.4 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories. Core PCEexcluding those, core PCE prices rose 4.7 percent. In February, the 12month change in the CPI came in at 6 percent, and the change in the core CPI was 5.5 percent. Inflation has moderated somewhat since the middle of last year, but the strength of these recent readings indicates that inflation pressures continue to run high. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 3.3 percent for this year, 2.5 percent next year, and 2.1 percent in 2025. The process of getting inflation back down to 2 percent has a long way to go and is likely to be bumpy. Despite elevated inflation, longerterm inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. We are highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, bringing the target range to 4¾ to 5 percent. And we are continuing the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. Since our previous FOMC meeting, economic indicators have generally come in stronger than expected, demonstrating greater momentum in economic activity and inflation. We believe, however, that events in the banking system over the past two weeks are likely to result in tighter credit conditions for households and businesses, which would in turn affect economic outcomes. It is too soon to determine the extent of these effects and therefore too soon to tell how monetary policy should respond. As a result, we no longer state that we anticipate that ongoing rate increases will be appropriate to quell inflation; instead, we now anticipate that some additional policy firming may be appropriate. We will closely monitor incoming data and carefully assess the actual and expected effects of tighter credit conditions on economic activity, the labor market, and inflation, and our policy decisions will reflect that assessment. In our SEP, each FOMC participant wrote down an appropriate path for the federal funds rate based on what that participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. If the economy evolves as projected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 5.1 percent at the end of this year, 4.3 percent at the end of 2024, and 3.1 percent at the end of 2025. These are little changed from our December projections, reflecting offsetting factors. These projections are not a Committee decision or plan; if the economy does not evolve as projected, the path for policy will adjust as appropriate to foster our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. We will continue to make our meeting decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the vincoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Reducing inflation is likely to require a period of belowtrend growth and some softening in labor market conditions. Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. To conclude, we understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

Thanks. So I, I guess our view is that the banking system is sound and it’s resilientit’s got strong capital [and] liquidity. We took powerful actions with [the] Treasury and the FDIC, which demonstrate that all depositors’ savings are safe and that the banking system is safe. Deposit flows in the banking system have stabilized over the last week. And the last thing I’ll say is that we’ve undertakenwe’re undertaking a thorough internal review that will identify where we can strengthen supervision and regulation.

So we consideredwe did consider that in the days running up to the meeting, and you see the decision that we made, which I’ll say a couple things about. First, it was supported by a very strong consensus, and I’ll be happy to explain why. And, really, it is that the intermeeting data on inflation and the labor market came in stronger than expected and, really, before the recent events, we were clearly on track to continue with ongoing rate hikes. In fact, as of a couple of weeks ago, it looked like we’d need to raise rates over the course of the year more than we had expected at the time of the SEP in Decemberat the time of the December meeting. We are committed to restoring price stability, and all of the evidence says that the public has confidence that we will do sothat we’ll bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. It is important that we sustain that confidence with our actions as well as our words. So we also assess, as I mentioned, that the events of the last two weeks are likely to result in some tightening credit conditions for households and businesses and thereby weigh on demand, on the labor market, and on inflation. Such a tightening in financial conditions would work in the same direction as rate tightening. In principle, as a matter of fact, you can think of it as being the equivalent of a rate hike or perhaps more than that; of course, it’s not possible to make that assessment today with any precision whatsoever. So our decision was to move ahead with the 25 basis point hike and to change our guidance, as I mentioned, from ongoing hikes to some, some additional hikes maybesome policy firming may be appropriate. So going forward, as I mentioned, in assessing the need for, for further hikes, we’ll be focused as always on the incoming data and the evolving outlook and, in particular, on our assessment of the actual and expected effects of credit tightening.

No, I think it’s, it’s meant to refer to our policy rate. Really, I would focus on, on the words “may” and “some,” as opposed to “ongoing.” Ongoing. So we, we clearly werewhat we were doing there was taking onboard thetrying to reflect the uncertainty about what will happen. I mean, it, it’s possible that this will turn out to have very modest effectsthat these events will turn out to be very, very modest effects on the economy, in which case inflation will continue to be strongin which case, you know, the path will look might look different. It’s also possible that this potential tightening will contribute significant tightening in credit conditions over time and, in principle, if thatthat means that monetary policy may have less work to do. We simply don’t know. So.

No. I mean, with our monetary policy, we’re, we’re really focused on macroeconomic outcomes. In particular, we’re focused on, on this potential credit tightening and what can that produce in the way of tighter credit conditions. I think when we think about the situation with the banks, we’re focused on ouron our financial stability tools, in particular our lending facilities, the debtsorry, the discount window, and also the new facility.

So, you know, we have just come from an FOMC meeting and, you know, the people who write the minutes will be very carefully counting, but I’ll tell you what I heard. What I heard was significant number of people saying that they anticipated there would be some, some tightening of credit conditions and that would really have the same effects as, as our policies do, and that therefore they were including that in their assessment and that if that did turn out not to be the case, in principle you would need more rate hikes. So some people did reflect that in their FOMCin their SEP forecasts. I think there may also just have been remember, this is 12 days ago. You know, we’re trying to assess something that just is so recent and it’s peopleyou know, it’s very difficult, there’s so much uncertainty. So December was a good place to start, and we wound up withwe wound up with very similar outcomes for December. And, you know, in a way, the earlythe data in the first partthe first five weeks of the intermeeting period pointed to stronger inflation and stronger labor markets. So that pointed to higher rates. And then this, this latter part kind ofthe possibility of credit conditions tightening really, really offset that, effectively.

You know, we know that we have other, other tools in effect, but no, we think our monetary policy tool works, and we think, you know, many, many banksour rate hikes were well telegraphed to the market, and many banks have managed to handle them.

The issue was really not about those specific banks, but about the risk of a contagion to, to other banks and to the financial markets more broadly. That was the issue.

So Vice Chair Barr is, is of course leading that review. And he’s responsible for it in his capacity as Vice Chair for Supervision. WeI realized, you know, right away that, that there was going to be a need for review. I mean, the question we’re all asking ourselves over that first weekend was, how did this happen? And so what we did was, early Monday morning, we sat down and said, “Let’s do this.” And he, he was obviously going to lead it in his capacity. So I don’tmy role was to announce it, and I get briefed on it, but I’m not involved in, in the work of it.

Yes. I mean, what actually happened, Howard, was I got the question 12 times, so it’smaybe it’s a feature, not a bug. But, so, but yeah, absolutely the samethe story is intact, so it’s really three parts, right? Goods inflation has been coming down now for six months; it’s proceeding more slowly than we would have liked, but it’s certainly proceeding. Housing services is, is really a matter of time passing. We continue to see the new leases being signed at much lower levels of inflation. So that’s 44 percent of theof the core PCE index, where you’ve got a story that’s ongoing. Where we didn’t have in February, and we still don’t have now, is a sign of progress in the nonhousing services sector. And that is, you know, that’s just something that will have to come through softening demand and perhaps some softening in labor market conditions. We don’t see that yet. And that’s, that’s of course 56 percent of the index. So the story is pretty much the same. I will say that the inflation data that we got, to your point, really pointed to stronger inflation.

So it’s really just a question of not knowing at this point. There’s a great deal of literature on the connection between tighter credit conditions, economic activity, hiring, and inflation. Very large body of literature. The question is, how significant will this credit tightening be and how sustainable it will be? That’s, that’s the issue. And we don’t really see it yet, so, so people are making estimates, you know, people are publishing estimates, but it’s very kind of ruleofthumb guesswork almost at this point. But we think it’s, it’s potentially quite real and that argues for, you know, being alert as we go forward. As we think about further rate hikes for us, we’ll be paying attention to the actual and expected effects from that.

These are not weaknesses that arethat are at all broadly through the banking system. This wasthis was a bank that was an outlier in terms of both its percentage of, of uninsured deposits and in terms of its holdings of duration risk. And again, supervisors did get in there, and, and they were, as you know, obviously, you know they were they were on this issue, but nonetheless, this, this still happened. And so that’s really the nature of the interviewsorry, of the reviewis to discover that.

So we published an SEP today, as you will have seen, and it shows that basically participants expect relatively slow growth, a gradual rebalancing of supply and demand in the labor market, with inflation moving down gradually. In that most likely case, if that happens, participants don’t see rate cuts this year. They just don’t. I would just say: As always, the path of the economy is uncertain, and policy is going to reflect what actually happens rather than what we write down in the SEP. But that’s not our baseline expectation.

It’s going to depend. Remember, we’re lookingfor purposes of our monetary policy tool, we’re looking at what’s happening among the banks and asking, is there going to be some tightening in credit conditions? And then we’re thinking about that as effectively doing the same thing that rate hikes do. So, in a way, that substitutes for rate hikes. So, the key is, we have to havepolicy has got to be tight enough to bring inflation down to 2 percent over time. It doesn’t all have to come from rate hikes: It can come from, you know, from tighter credit conditions. So we’re looking at, and we, weit’s highly uncertain how long the situation will be sustained or how significant any of those effects would be, so we’re just going to have to watch. In the meantime, you knowobviously, at the end of the day, we will do enough to bring inflation down to 2 percent. No one should doubt that.

So, you know, we’re well aware of the concentrations people have in commercial real estate. I really don’t think it’s comparable to this. The, the banking system is, is strong, it is sound, it is resilient, it’s well capitalized, and I really don’t see that as at all analogous to this.

I welcomeit’s 100 percent certainty that there will be independent investigations and outside investigations and all that. So we welcomewhen a bank fails, there are investigations. And, of course, we welcome that.

We don’t assume that. We don’t give advice to the fiscal authorities, and we assume thatwe take fiscal policy as, as it comes to our front door, stick it in our model along with a million other things. We have responsibility for price stability. The Federal Reserve has responsibility for that. And nothing’s going to change that. Soand we will get inflation down to 2 percent in time.

You have to look at, at the impulse from spending because spending was, of course, tremendously high during the pandemic, and then, as the pandemic programs rolled off, spending actually came down, so thethis sort of fiscal impulse is actually not what’s driving inflation right now. It wasit was at the beginning perhaps part of what was driving inflation, but that’s not really the story now.

Sure. So 13(3) seemed like the rightwe have a little more flexibility under section 13(3). We’ve done quite a lot under the discount window as well. We needed to do a special facility that was designed a certain way, so we did it under 13(3). Really no magic to that. It’s only available in unusual and exigent circumstances, and it has to be meet certain requirements, but it seemed to be the right place. So with the FDIC, we’re just, we’re lending to the, in effect, we’rewe’re lending to the bridge bank. So that’s where the funds came from, and it’sit’s a loan that’s 100 percent guaranteed by the FDIC, so there’s no risk in it for us.

No, absolutely not. No, we, if we need to raise hikeraise rates higher, we will. I think for now though we, weas I’ve mentioned, we see the likelihood of, of credit tightening. We know that can have, you know, an effect on the macroeconomy, on demand, on labor market, on inflation, and we’rewe’re going to be watching to see what that is. And we’ll also be watching what’s happening with inflation and in the labor market. So we’ll be watching all those things, and of course we willwe will eventually get to [a] tight enough policy to bring inflation down to 2 percent. We’ll find ourselves at that place.

SoPeople think of QE and QT in different ways, so let me be clear about how I’m thinking about these recent developments. So the recent liquidity provision that has increased the size of our balance sheet but the intent and the effects of it are very different from what wefrom when we expand our balance sheet through purchases of longerterm securities. Largescale purchases of longterm securities are, are really meant to alter the stance of policy by pushing downpushing up the price and down the rates, longerterm rates, which supports demand through channels we understand fairly well. The balance sheet expansion is really temporary lending to banks to meet those special liquidity demands created by the recent tensions; it’s not intended to directly alter the stance of monetary policy. We do believe that it’s working. It’s having its intended effect of bolstering confidence in the banking system and thereby forestalling what might otherwise have been an abrupt and outsized tightening in financial conditions. So that’s working. In terms of the distribution of reserves, we, we don’t see ourselves as, as running into reserve shortages. We, we think that our program of allowing our balance sheet to, to run off predictably, predicatbly and passively is working. And of course we’re, we’re always prepared to, to change that if that changes. But we don’t see any evidence that that’s changed.

I mean, to be honest, I don’tI don’t recall the specifics of that. It’s been quite an interesting seven weeks. But, but I will tell you, though, that we havethere have been presentations about, about interest rate risk. I mean, it’s been in all the newspapers. It’s not a surprise that there are institutions that havethat have had unhedged long positions in long duration securities that have lost value as, as longerterm rates have gone up due to our rate increases. So that’s, that’s not a surprise. I, I think, as you know, as is now in the public record, the supervisory team was apparently engaged, very much engaged with the bank repeatedly, and was escalating but, you know, nonetheless, what happened happened. And so that’s really the purpose ofone way to think about the review that Vice Chair Barr is conducting is to try to understand how that happened and try to understand how we can do better and what policies we need to change. I mean, one thing is the speed of theI’ll come back to that, the speed of the run, it’s very different from what we’ve seen in the past, and it does kind of suggest that there’s a need for possible, you know, regulatory and supervisory changes just because supervision and regulation need to keep up with what’s, what’s happening in the world.

I will have to come back to you on that. Yeah, I don’t know.

Well, I’m not saying anything more than I’m saying. Sobut what I’m saying is you’ve seen that we have the tools to protect depositors when there’s a threat of serious harm to the economy or toor to the financial system, and we’re prepared to use those tools. And I think depositors should assume that theirthat their deposits are safe.

Sure. So, you know, wethat was really the Swiss government that we of course were, were following it over the course of the weekend, and we were engaged with their authorities in the way that you would expect, all the ways that you would expect. It seems to have been a positive outcome in the sense that the transaction was agreed to, and it has been the markets have accepted it, and it seems to have gone well, and I think there was a concern that it might not go well. So coming into the middle of this week, yes, I would say that that is going well so far.

So that’s justthat’s an estimate of what will happen as demand slows and as conditions soften in the labor market and it’s justit’s a highly uncertain estimate. And, I mean, I was reallywe have to bring inflation down to 2 percent. The costs of bringing it downthere are real costs to bringing it down to 2 percent, but the costs of failing are much higher. And if you read your history, as I’m sure you have, you can see that if the central bank doesn’t get inflation back in place, get inflationmake sure that inflation expectations remain anchored, you can have a long series of years where inflation is high and volatile, and it’s hard to invest capital, it’s hard for an economy to perform well. And we’re looking to avoid that and, you know, to get back to where we need to beback to where we were for a quarter century, and get there as quickly as we can.

Well, it depends on whether youso recessions tend to be nonlinear, and so they’re very hard to model. You know, the models all work in a kind of linear wayif you have more of this, you get more of that. But when a recession happens, the reactions tend to be nonlinear and that’s whatso we don’t know whether that’ll happen this time. We don’t knowif so, we don’t know how significant it will be, and so, you know, we’re very focused on getting inflation down because we know in the longer run that that is the thing that will most benefit the people we serve. That’s how we can have a longyou know, we’ve had very strong labor markets through these long expansions that we’ve had. Four of the five longest, or three of the four longest expansions in U.S. history have been really since the highinflation period. And the reason was inflation wasn’t forcing the central bank to come in and stop an incipient or, or, you know, an expansion. You can have very, very long expansions without high inflation, and we had several of those, and they’re very good for people. You see late in an expansionyou see low unemployment, you see the benefits of wages going to people at the lower end of the wage spectrum. It’s just a place that we should try to get back to.

JEAN YUNG. Hi,  Jean Young with Market News. I just wanted to ask, with all the events of the past two weeks, do you still see a possibility of a soft landing for the

You know it’s, it’s too early to say, really, whether these events have had much of an effect. It’s hard for me to see how they would have helped the possibilitybut I guess I would just say, it’s too early to say whether there really have been changes in that. You know, the question will be how long this period is sustained. The longer it’s sustained, then the greater will be the likely declines inor tightening in credit standards, credit availability, so we’ll just have to see. I do still think, though, that there’s athere’s a pathway to that. I think that pathway still exists and, you know, we’re certainly trying to find it.

How many? I don’t know. But those are seriousthose are serious regulatory, in particular immediate attention, and that’sand I guess there were six of them. So.

That is a great question and is right in the heart of what the review will be doing under Vice Chair Barr’s leadership. So that’s, I think that’s wherethat’s what you think about. What can we do to make sure thatbut, again, that’s not for me to answer today.

Well I, Isee, if I did, I wouldn’t share them because I, I really, you know, this review is going on, and, you know, I want nothing other than us to find out what happened and why, figure out what we can do to do better, and then implement those changes. That’s all I want. It’sFor me to be giving you my halfformed, or partially informed, thoughts, it, you know, just isn’t appropriate. There’s a real serious review going on with, with people from all over the Federal Reserve System who are not connected to this, you know, to this work, not connected to this bank, and under, again, Vice Chair Barr’s leadership, and I’m confident that it will produce a satisfactory result.

So we haven’t really talked about changing the balance sheet implementationthat’s not something we’ve discussed yet. As I mentioned, we’re always willing to change that if we conclude that it’s appropriate, but we’re really not seeing any signs there. Sorry, then the question before that was, just give me a

So financial conditions seem to have tightenedand probably by more than the traditional indexes say, because traditional indexes are focused a lot on [interest] rates and [prices of] equities, and they don’t necessarily capture lending conditions. So we think that, though. So there are other measures which, if they’re focused on, you knowbank lending conditions and things like thatthey show some more tightening. The question for us, though, is, how significant will that be and how, you knowwhat will be the extent of it and what will be the duration of it? And thenand then, you know, once you haveonce you know that, there’s a fair amount of research about how that, with broad uncertainty bandshow that works its way into the economy [and] over what period of time. And so, you know, we’ll be looking to see the first part of thatlike how serious is this, and does it look like it’s going to be sustained, and if it is, you know, it could easily have a significant macroeconomic effect, and we would factor that into our policy decisions. I mentioned with rate cuts, rate cuts are not in our base case, and, you know, so that’s all I have to say. Thank you very much.