Good afternoon. At the Federal Reserve, we are strongly committed to achieving the monetary policy goals that Congress has given us: maximum employment and price stability. Today, the FOMC kept interest rates near zero and, in light of the progress the economy has made toward our goals, decided to begin reducing the pace of asset purchases. With these actions, monetary policy will continue to provide strong support to the economic recovery. Given the unprecedented nature of the disruptions related to the pandemic and the reopening of the economy, we remain attentive to risks and will ensure that our policy is well positioned to address the full range of plausible economic outcomes. I will say more about our monetary policy decisions after reviewing recent economic developments. Economic activity expanded at a 6.5 percent pace in the first half of the year, reflecting progress on vaccinations, the reopening of the economy, and strong policy support. In the third quarter, real GDP growth slowed notably from this rapid pace. The summer’s surge in COVID cases from the Delta variant has held back the recovery in the sectors most adversely affected by the pandemic, including travel and leisure. Activity has also been restrained by supply constraints and bottlenecks, notably in the motor vehicle industry. As a result, both household spending and business investment flattened out last quarter. Nonetheless, aggregate demand has been very strong this year, buoyed by fiscal and monetary policy support and the healthy financial positions of households and businesses. With COVID case counts receding further and progress on vaccinations, economic growth should pick up this quarter, resulting in strong growth for the year as a whole. Conditions in the labor market have continued to improve, and demand for workers remains very strong. As with overall economic activity, the pace of improvement slowed with the rise in COVID cases. In August and September, job gains averaged 280,000 per month, down from an average of about 1 million jobs per month in June and July. The slowdown has been concentrated in sectors most sensitive to the pandemic, including leisure and hospitality and education. The unemployment rate was 4.8 percent in September. This figure understates the shortfall in employment, particularly as participation in the labor market remains subdued. Some of the softness in participation likely reflects the aging of the population and retirements. But participation for primeaged individuals also remains well below prepandemic levelsin part reflecting factors related to the pandemic, such as caregiving needs and ongoing concerns about the virus. As a result, employers are having difficulties filling job openings. These impediments to labor supply should diminish with further progress on containing the virussupporting gains in employment and economic activity. The economic downturn has not fallen equally on all Americans, and those least able to shoulder the burden have been hardest hit. Despite progress, joblessness continues to fall disproportionately on African Americans and Hispanics. The supply and demand imbalances related to the pandemic and the reopening of the economy have contributed to sizable price increases in some sectors. In particular, bottlenecks and supply chain disruptions are limiting how quickly production can respond to the rebound in demand in the near term. As a result, overall inflation is running well above our 2 percent longerrun goal. Supply constraints have been larger and longer lasting than anticipated. Nonetheless, it remains the case that the drivers of higher inflation have been predominantly connected to the dislocations caused by the pandemicspecifically, the effects on supply and demand from the shutdown, the uneven reopening, and the ongoing effects of the virus itself. We understand the difficulties that high inflation poses for individuals and families, particularly those with limited means to absorb higher prices for essentials such as food and transportation. Our tools cannot ease supply constraints. Like most forecasters, we continue to believe that our dynamic economy will adjust to the supply and demand imbalances and that, as it does, inflation will decline to levels much closer to our 2 percent longerrun goal. Of course, it is very difficult to predict the persistence of supply constraints or their effects on inflation. Global supply chains are complex; they will return to normal function, but the timing of that is highly uncertain. We are committed to our longerrun goal of 2 percent inflation and to having longerterm inflation expectations well anchored at this goal. If we were to see signs that the path of inflation, or [of] longerterm inflation expectations, was moving materially and persistently beyond levels consistent with our goal, we would use our tools to preserve price stability. We will be watching carefully to see whether the economy is evolving in line with expectations. The Fed’s policy actions have been guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people, along with our responsibilities to promote the stability of the financial system. Our asset purchases have been a critical tool. They helped preserve financial stability early in the pandemic and since then have helped foster smooth market functioning and accommodative financial conditions to support the economy. Last December, the Committee stated its intention to continue asset purchases at a pace of at least $120 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. At today’s meeting, the Committee judged that the economy has met this test, and decided to begin reducing the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning later this month, we will reduce the monthly pace of our net asset purchases by $10 billion for Treasury securities and $5 billion for agency mortgagebacked securities. We also announced another reduction of this size in the monthly purchase pace starting in mid December, since that month’s purchase schedule will be released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York prior to our December FOMC meeting. If the economy evolves broadly as expected, we judge that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases will likely be appropriate each month, implying that increases in our securities holdings would cease by the middle of next year. That said, we are prepared to adjust the pace of purchases if warranted by changes in the economic outlook. And even after our balance sheet stops expanding, our holdings of securities will continue to support accommodative financial conditions. Our decision today to begin tapering our asset purchases does not imply any direct signal regarding our interest rate policy. We continue to articulate a different and more stringent test for the economic conditions that would need to be met before raising the federal funds rate. To conclude, we understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to complete the recovery in employment and achieve our pricestability goal. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

So I would say it this way. We try to focus on what we can controland that is how to communicate as clearly as possible, in this highly uncertain world, how we’re thinking about the economic outlook and the balance of risks and how policy will evolve in that case and also in the cases, which are frequent, where the economy evolves in unexpected ways. So the focus at this meeting is on tapering asset purchases, not on raising rates. It is time to taper, we think, because the economy has achieved substantial further progress toward our goals, measured from last December. We don’t think it’s time yet to raise interest rates. There is still ground to cover to reach maximum employment, both in terms of employment and in terms of participation. Getting to your question, our baseline expectation is that supply bottlenecks and shortages will persist well into next year, and elevated inflation as well, and that, as the pandemic subsides, supply chain bottlenecks will abateand job growth will move back up. And as that happens, inflation will decline from today’s elevated levels. Of course, the timing of that is highly uncertain. But, certainly, we should see inflation moving down by the second or third quarter. The time for lifting rates and beginning to remove accommodation will depend on the path of the economy. We think we can be patient. If a response is called for, we will not hesitate. So, what I will tell you is, we will be watching carefully to see whether the economy evolves in line with our expectations, and policy will adapt appropriately. And that’s what I would say.

So if you look at the progress that we’ve made over the course of the last year, if that pace were to continue, then the answer would be: “Yes, I do think that that is possible.” Of course, we measure maximum employment based on a wide range of figures, but it’s certainly within the realm of possibility.

So wages have been moving up strongly, very strongly. And, in particular, I would point to the employment compensation index reading that we got last Friday. Now, in real terms, they’ve beenthey had been running a little bit below inflation, so real wages were not really increasing. I think, with the ECI reading, it becomes close to maybe not increasing, but close to back to zero in terms of the real increase. So wages moving up, of course, is how standard of living increases over the years for generation upon generation. It’s very important, and it’s generally a good thing. You know, the concern is a somewhat unusual case where, if wages were to be rising persistently and materially above inflation and productivity gains, that could put upward pressure on, or downward pressure on margins and cause companies toor employers, reallyto raise prices as a result, and you can see yourself, find yourself in what we used to call a wage–price spiral. We don’t have evidence of that yet. Productivity has been very high. The ECI reading is just one reading. Again, if you look back, weso we’ll be watching this carefully. But I would say that, at this point, we don’t see troubling increases in wages. And we don’t expect those to emerge, but we’ll be watching carefully.

Yes. So I’m not sure I totally got your first question, but I would sayin fact, could you just quickly, succinctly, say your first question again?

Yes, so, you know, this isn’t the traditional Phillips curve situation where there’s a direct tradeoff, where that’s really what we’re talking about. The inflation that we’re seeing is really not due to a tight labor market. It’s due to bottlenecks, and it’s due to shortages, and it’s due to very strong demand meeting those. So I think it’s not the classical situation where you have that precise tradeoff. But, you know, in this situation, we do have a provision in our Statement on LongerRun Goals, as you know, that says when those two things are in tension, what we do is, we take into account the employment shortfalls and inflation deviations and the potentially different time horizons over which employment and inflation are projected to return to levels judged consistent with the mandate. So we used to call that the “balanced approach” paragraph. We have to think about the amount of the deviation, we have to think about the time it will take, and we have to make policy in a world where the two goals are in tension. It’s very difficult. But what it really boils down to is something that’s common sense. And that is risk management. We have to be aware of the risks that we’reparticularly now the risk of significantly higher inflation. We see shortages and bottlenecks persisting into next year, well into next year. We see higher inflation persisting, and we have to be in position to address that risk should it become really a threat toshould it create a threat of more persistent, longerterm inflation. And that’s what we think our policy is doing now. It’s putting us in a position to be able to address the range of plausible outcomes.

So I guess, as I said in my opening remarks, assuming the economy performs broadly as expected, the Committee judges that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases will likely be appropriate each month, and we’re prepared to deviate from that path if warranted by changes in the economic outlook. So I’m not going to give you a lot more detail on what that might be. Of course, if we do see something like that happening, if it becomes a question, then we’ll communicate very transparently and openly about that. But I’m just going to leave it with the words that are in the statement. Sorry, was there a second part?

You know, I would just leave you with the words we have here. We are prepared to speed up or slow down the pace of reductions in asset purchases if it’s warranted by changes in the economic outlook. And, again, if we feel like something like that’s happening, then we’ll be very transparent about it. We wouldn’t want to surprise markets. We’ll say, in light of this factor or these factors, we are considering doing this, and then we would either do it or not do it. But sobut I’m not going to, you know, start making up examples of what that might be today. Thanks.

Yes. So, first of all, it is our job toand we accept responsibility and accountability for inflation in the medium term. We’re accountable to Congress and to the American people for maximum employment and price stability. The level of inflation we have right now is not at all consistent with price stability. By the way, we’re also not at maximum employment, as I mentioned. So I would want to assure people that we will use our tools as appropriate to get inflation under control. We don’t think it’s a good time to raise interest rates, though, because we want to see the labor market heal further. And we have very good reason to think that that will happen as the Delta variant declines, sowhich it’s doing now. So “transitory” is a word that people have had different understandings of. For some, it carries a sense of “short lived,” and that’s, you know, there’s a real time componentmeasured in months, let’s say. Really, for us, what “transitory” has meant is that if something is transitory, it will not leave behind it permanently or very persistently higher inflation. So that’s why we, you know, we took a step back from “transitory.” We said “expected to be transitory,” first of all, to show uncertainty around thatwe’ve always said that, by the way, in other contexts; we just hadn’t done it in the statementbut also to acknowledge, really, that it means different things to different people. And then we added some language to really explain more what we’re talking about in paragraph two and paragraph three. We said that “supply and demand imbalances related to the pandemic and the reopening of the economy have contributed to sizable price increases,” and we said, “Progress on vaccinations and an easing of supply constraints are expected to support continued gains in economic activity and employment as well as a reduction in inflation.” So we’re trying to explain what we mean and also acknowledging more uncertainty about “transitory.” So it’s, I mean, it’s become a word that’s attracted a lot of attention that maybe is distracting from our message, which we want to be as clear as possible. Ultimately, the only other thing I would say is, look, we understand completely that it’s particularly people who are living paycheck to paycheck or seeing higher grocery costs, higher gasoline costswhen the winter comes, higher heating costs for their homes. We understand completely what they’re going through. And, you know, we will use our tools over time to make sure that that doesn’t become a permanent feature of life. Really, that’s one of our principal jobs, along with achieving maximum employment. And that’s our commitment.

Thanks. So maximum employment is, it’s a broadwhat would we say?broadbased and inclusive goal that’s not directly measurable and changes over time due to various factors. You can’t specify a specific goal. So it’s taking into account quite a broad range of things, and, of course, employmentlevels of employment[and] participation are a part of that. But, in addition, there are other measures of what’s going on in the labor market, like wages is a key measure of how tight the labor market isthe level of quits, the amount of job openings, the flows in and out of various states. So we look at so many different things, and you make an overall judgment. Now, the temptation at the beginning of the recovery was to look at the data in February of 2020 and say, well, that’s the goal because we didn’t know anythat’s what we knew. We knew that was achievable in a context of low inflation. I think we’re in a, you know, we’re learning that. We have to be humble about what we know about this economy, which is still very, you know, COVIDaffected, by the way. A lot of what we’re seeing in the last 90 days is because of Delta. We were on a path to a very different place. Delta put us on a different path. And we see these things. But, so I think we’re going to have toideally, we would have, we would see further development of the labor market in a context where there isn’t another COVID spike, and then we would be able to see, I think, a lot. We would see whetherhow does participation react in that world, in that sort of postCOVID world? Right now, people are staying out of the labor market because of caretaking [and] because of fear of COVID to a significant extent. You know, we thought that schools reopening and elapsing unemployment benefits would produce some sort of additional labor supply. That doesn’t seem to have been the case, interestingly. So I think there’s room for a whole lot of humility here, as we try to think about what maximum employment would be. We’re going to have to see some time postCOVID so that we knowor postDelta, anywayto see what is possible. And I think the learning for those of us who lived through the last cycle is that, over time, you can get to places that didn’t look possible. Now, what we also have now, though, is, we have high inflation. So we have a completely different situation now where we have high inflation, and we have to balance that with what’s going on in the employment market. So it’s a complicated situation, and I would say, we will, we hope to achieve significantly greater clarity about where this economy is going and what the characteristics of the postpandemic economy are over the first half of next year.

Sorry, the two tests?

That’s a decision for the Committee. I would put it to you this way. When we reach maximum employment, when we reach a state where labor market conditions are at maximum employment in the Committee’s judgment, it’s very possible that the inflation test will already be met. We’re aware that that language sounds, it sounds a little out of touch with what’s going on, but, you know, we’re not at maximum employment. When that is the case, we’ll look to see whether the inflation test is met, and there’s a good chance that it will be if you look at how inflation has evolved in the last year and a half.

What I’m really saying is, that question is not before us right now. You know, we had the question on when to taper. We’ve now answered that question and the speed of it and all that. We have not focused on whether we meet the liftoff test, because we don’t meet the liftoff test now because we’re not at maximum employment. What I’m saying is, given where inflation is and where it’s projected to be, let’s say we do meet the maximumemployment test. Then the Committeethe question for the Committee at that time will be, has the inflation test been met? And, you know, I don’t want to get ahead of the Committee on that, but the answer may very well be “Yes, it’s been met.” But we’re not asking that question today, because we’re not running a liftoff test. We’re not evaluating the liftoff test today. We didn’t have that discussion at today’s meeting. We did talk about the economy and the development of the economy, but we didn’t ask ourselves whether the liftoff test is met, because, you know, it’s clearly not met on the maximumemployment side.

So we don’t actually define maximum employment aswe define it in terms of inflation, but, of course, there is a connection there. Maximum employment has to be a level that is consistent with stable prices. But that’s not really how we think about it. We think about maximum employment as looking at a broad range of things. You can’t just look at unlike inflation, where you can have a number. But with maximum employment, you could be in a situation, hypothetically, where the unemployment rate is low, but there are many people who are out of the labor force and will come back in. And so you wouldn’t really be at maximum employment, because there’s this group that isn’t counted as unemployed. So we look at a range of things. So the thing is, by many measures, we are at a very tight labor market. I mentioned quits and job openings and wages and things. Many of them are signaling a tight labor market, but the issue is, how persistent is that? Because you have people who are held out of the labor market, you know, of their ownthey’re holding themselves out of the labor market because of caretaking needs or because of fear of COVID, or, for whatever reason, they’re staying out. And it’s clear that there are, you knowwith tremendous demand for workers and wages moving up, it does seem like we’re set up to go back to a higher job creation rate. So that would suggest that you’re not at maximum employment. So, at the end of the day, it is a judgment thing. But, of course, at the end of it, it also has to be a level of employment that’s consistent with price stability.

Yes. I mean, again, it’s a riskmanagement thing. It’s notI can’t reduce it to an equation, but, ultimately, it’s about risk management. So you want to be in a position to act, to cover the full range of plausible outcomes, not just the base case. And in this case, the risk is skewed. For now, it appears to be skewed toward higher inflation. So we need to be in a position to act in case it becomes necessary to do so or appropriate to do so, and we think we will be. So that’s how we’re thinking about it. And I think, though, that, judgmentally, too, it’s appropriate to be patient. It’s appropriate for us to see what the labor market and what the economy look like when they heal further. We know that we were on a path to a different place, as I mentioned, when Delta arrived. And Delta stopped, it stopped job creation. It stopped that transition away from a goodsfocused economy where there’s excess demand for goods because thereservices are not available. People are not traveling. That transition itself could help bring inflation down, because, presumably, people would spend a little less on goods while they start spending more on travel and all sorts of travel services and things like that. So we want to see that healthy process unfold as we decide what the true state of the economy is, and we think it will evolve in a way that will mean lower inflation. Bottlenecks should be abating. We start to see that now with some of them, but, overall, they haven’t gotten better overall, and, you know, we’re very aware of that. So that’s really how we’re thinking about it. We’re thinking that time will tell us more. In the meantime, we don’t think it’s time to raise rates now. You know, if we do conclude that it’s necessary to do so, then we’ll be patient, but we won’t hesitate.

So that’s not a decision for bank regulators or for any agency. That’s a decision for elected representatives. So we feel that any role that we haveand we do think we have a role in climate change. It relates to our existing mandates, and our existing mandates are, really, prudential regulation of financial institutions. We expect them, and the public will expect us to expect them, to understand and be in a position to manage their risks. So that’s physical risk, and it’s transition risk for climate. And, by the way, the large financial institutions are doing this already, and, you know, we think that’s right within our mandate. There’s also a financial stability question, the overall stability of the financial system. And so, from that standpoint, we can do research. We can try to help understand what will the pathways be through which climate change effects the economyboth physical risk and transition risk. That’s what we can do, and that’s what we will do. And we’ll do it well. Within the frame of our existing mandates, we’ll do it well. We’re not the people who will decide the national strategy on climate change. That has to be elected people, and not so much us. We feel like we have that narrow mandate, and we will do it well.

So we, you know, welet me just say that this system, the ethics system we had in place had been in place for decades and had, as far as we know, served us well, and then that was no longer the case. And so we had no moment of denial about that. As a group, we stepped in, and we took the actions that we took. And, you know, within one FOMC cycle, we announced a new set of rules to, you know, to try to put us back where we need to be, which is, we need to have the complete trust of the American people that we’re working in their interest all the timeabsolutely critical to our work, as it is for any government agency. And I feel like this called that into question. So we reacted, I would characterize it, strongly and forcefully. If there were other things that we could do that were reasonable, we would certainly do them. So you asked me about blind trusts. You know, the overall authority for ethics around these issues in the federal government is the Office of Government Ethics, OGE. And they have a longheld position which is not favorable to blind trusts. They do not encourage them. They don’t think they’re effective. They think they’re cumbersome. And they think there are better ways to get at the things that need to be done. And those are the things that we’re actually doing. So I don’t know that there are any blind trusts, for that reason, because they are the, they’re the regulator. They say this on their website, if you look. In terms of laws broken, you know, I asked the inspector general to look to see whether there were rules broken and whether there were laws broken, and I won’t speculate on that. But that is with the inspector general now and, of course, out of my hands.

Well, so, let me say what’s happenedand we’re very, very straightforward about itis that inflation has come in higher than expected, and bottlenecks have been more persistent and more prevalent. We see that just like everybody else does, and we see that they’re now on track to persist well into next year. That was not expectednot expected by us, not expected by other macro forecasters. Now, let me say, you know, it’s difficult enough to just forecast the economy in normal times. When you’re talking about, you know, global supply chains in turmoil, it’s a whole different thing. And you’re talking about a pandemic that’s holding people out of the labor force for reasons that we can sample, but we don’t have a lot of experience with this. So it’s very, very difficult to forecast and not easy to set policy. So we have to set policy, though. So that’s what we’re doing. And, you know, so, to look at your question this way, I don’t think that we’re behind the curve. I actually believe that policy is well positioned to address the range of plausible outcomes, and that’s what we need to do. I do think it would be premature to raise rates today. That’s notI don’t think that’s controversial. Certainly, I don’t know anyone arguing for that today. And the reason is that there’s still ground to cover to get to maximum employment. And we don’t want to stop that when there’s good reason to thinkthere’s still good reason to think, although it’s been delayed, clearly, there’s good reason to think that the economy will reopen, particularly if we do get past, you know, significant outbreaks of COVID. That’s when we’re really going to see what the characteristics of the labor market are. And, you know, I think, you know, the bottlenecks that we’re seeing in global supply chains around goods and, frankly, now at our own domestic ports, because demand is stronger than the capacity of those portsthose things are going to work themselves out. We have a flexible economy. It’ll take some time, but, you know, it tookyou know, the experts managed to create a vaccine faster than, certainly, than I expected. And I think this stuff will work itself out over the course of next year. That is my baseline understanding, and that’s a very widely held one among people. But, you know, we are prepared for different eventualities, and we will use our tools to achieve price stability and maximum employment. And we’re going to let the data lead us to where we need to go. Our policy will adaptand has already adaptedto the changing understanding of inflation and of bottlenecks and the whole supplyside storywhich is also partly a demand story. So our policy will continue to adapt as is appropriate.

The economy is in quite a different place than when we tapered back in, I guess it was, 2013. We were much farther away from maximum employment. Inflation was much lower. This is an economy where demand is very, very strong, very strong, and job openings substantially exceed the number of unemployed people. So the need for further stimulus is far less than it was in 2013, where we still had quite a ways to go. I mean, after we began that taper, it was still many years before we reached what I would characterize as conditions consistent with maximum employment, let alone price stability. So this is quite a different situation, and, you know, the Committee unanimously felt today that we had met the test that we’d articulated, and this was appropriate. And this is faster than, you know, than what people had expected six months ago. It’s earlier and faster, and that’s because our, as I mentioned, our policy has been adapting to the situation as it evolves, as it’s clarifying itself, and that’s partly because we see inflation coming in higherso.

Sure. So in terms of the balance sheet, those questions that you mentionwe haven’t gone back to them. Now that we’ve tapered, I expect that that’s exactly what we’ll do in coming meetings. And we’ll do it in an orderly fashion, and we’ll talk about reinvestment and all those things. And we don’t have to make decisions on those yet. But, you know, typically, when we’re doing a new subject like that, we’ll have a series of briefings and discussions. And that’s what we will now begin to do. In terms of the effect of asset purchases on the economy, so, there’s a tremendous amount of research and scholarship on this. And, you know, you can kind ofyou can find different people coming out with different views. But I would say, the most mainstream view would be that you’re at the effective lower bound, so how do you affect longerterm rates? There are two ways. One, so you can’t lower rateslet’s say you can’t lower rates any further, hypothetically. So you can give forward guidance. You can say, we’re going to keep the rates low for a period of time, either [for] a specific period, [or] until certain conditions are met. The markets will do the math, and that’ll have an effect on longerterm borrowings even, you know, 10, 30 years out kind of thing. So that’s one thing. The other thing you can do is, you just go buy those securities, buy longerterm securities. That will drive down longerterm rates and hold them lower, and, you know, rates right across the, right across the rate spectrum matter for borrowers. So lower rates encourage more borrowing, encourage more economic activity. Peopleyou can service your debt. You have more free cash flow. You know, it’s not different from what we do at the short end. So that was discussed long before anybody did it. That wasI think Milton Friedman said that that was what you could do if you were pinned at the lower bound, many, many years ago. So, anyway, that’s how it’s supposed to work. And, you know, it’s quite hard to be precise about these things because, you know, you only have one economy, and you can’t run two different economies right next to each other and do a scientific experiment. But most people findmost of the findings are that it does support economic activity in the way that you would expect, which is to say, at the margin, more economic activity with lower rates, which is why we do what we do. More accommodative financial conditions lead to more economic activity, over time, with a lag. So I think that’s the main finding I would say on QE.

So I’m not going toI won’t have anyI will answer your question, Paul, but I’m not going to have any comment whatsoever on the renomination process at all.

I will say, though, that I have briefed Administration officials, and I’ve briefed people on Capitol Hill in detail about what we did and why we did it, and seeking their feedback, getting their reaction. But, you know, this ispart of my job isCongress has oversight over the Fed, and we take that very seriously. So if you’re on our, one of the two committees that has oversight over us, then I’m in regular contact with you, probably. And, you know, when something like this comes up, I’m on the phone. I’m offering to meet with you and explain it to you and answer your questions and identify any concerns people might have. That’s just part of my job. So I do that. I don’t talk about particular conversations. But you can assume I’ll always do that. And I certainly did it in this case.

So I don’t have anything for you on supplemental leverage ratio right now. We are looking at ways to, if there are ways we can address liquidity issues through that channel. We’re alsowe also have athere’s a working group headed by [the] Treasury about, over Treasury [securities] markets, and what happened in the acute phase of the pandemic, and what structural things may need to be done. So that would be part of that workstream, and I know that there’s a lot going on. I’m not sure when that report will be out. So it’s work under way. That’s one of the many issues that are part of that, along with things like central clearing of Treasuries, greater central clearing, and, you know, many other ideas. It’s important that we have a liquid Treasury [securities] market. It’s a huge public benefit that we do, and, you know, I think we need to do those things that enable that, you know, while also assuring the safety and soundness of our largest financial institutions, who tend to be the main dealers. So we have to make sure that that’s always a first order of concern as well.

BRIAN CHEUNG. Hi,  Brian Cheung, Yahoo Finance. So, just to expand on the ethics conversation, you talked about how you engage with people on Capitol Hill and in the Administration. You talked about what you’ve done already, but I’m just wondering if you can take a step back and just assess whether or not there was reputational damage as a result of that, either from the public’s view or from the financial community’s view of the Federal Reserve’s independence. And then, secondly, do you look back on the whole episode and have thoughts on your individual responsibility in preventing something like this from having happened? CHAIR POWELL You know, I think it’s too soon to say what the reputational damage is. I think, from the very beginning, my reaction was: We need to deal with this straightforwardly, transparently, and forcefully. And that’s what we’re going to do. I mean, it’s, it means everything to me that we do whatever it takes to make sure that nothing like this happens again, and I like to think we’ve made a real good start on that. If you think about it, you cannot execute a trade unless it’s precleared, and then you have to say, “Execute.” It’s not even a trade. Really, there’s no trading going on. This is for investment and, you know, getting liquidity for life’s expenses. But you then have to wait 45 days to actually execute that sale or purchase. So I think it’s a pretty good system. We’ll always be looking to make it better. So in terms of our independence, you know, look, I think we will address this, and I think we have. And I like to think it’s enough, but it’s going to, you knowwe’re just beginning to implement it. We have to write the rules, which we’re doing, you know, as quickly as possible. We need more people. We’re going to have to resource this much more significantly here at the Board, and also, we’re going to need appropriate technology, because, you know, the Fed has more thanthe System has more than 30,000 employees. Not all of them, far few of them, will be covered by this, but the senior officers, who will be covered by this, will, you know, will have to have technology access, and it’s going to have to work efficiently. So there’s a lot of work to do to implement. You know, again, I would just say, this system has been in place for decades. And it was in place when I took over. It was in place for the last, at least the last three or four Chairs. And, you know, it was what it was. And, you know, it proved to have weaknesses in it. And part of that was, it wasn’t uniformly enforced across the System. I’m a big believer in the value of the Federal Reserve System and the Reserve Banks. But you had 12 different ethics officers at 12 different Banks. And you had ethics people here. And, you know, compliance wasn’t, it wasn’t all exactly the same. It was a little bit different and uneven, and also, the rules were you know, we didn’t imagine the problems that happened. And they may have actually beenI don’t know thisbut they may actually have been in compliance with the specifics of our rules. They were clearly not in compliance with the part of our rules that said, don’t do anything that would create that appearance. I mean, that’s clear. This was a bad appearance. So, anyway, what can we do? We are where we are. It happened, and we just have to deal with it forthrightly and transparently and “own” it and step up to this, you know, meet this moment. I’m totally committed to doing that. And, again, if there are better ideas, I’d love to hear them, but I think we have so far made a good start.

I’m not going to answer who I spoke to at all. I just, I’m not going to give you any names, so don’t take that as a “yes” or “no.” I’m just not going to start down that road.

Yes. So, what’s happening is, people are leaving their jobs. They’re quitting their jobs in alltimehigh numbersbut, in many cases, going back into employment and getting higher wages. So a lot of the higher wages you’re seeing are for job switchers rather than incumbents. So that’s just, that’s a sign of a really strong labor market, as opposed to people just running off and quitting. There have also beenthere are a significant number of retirements, and we’ll just have to see what that means. So, toward the end of the last cycle, which was the longest in our recorded economic history, we did see labor force participation moving up well above what economists estimate was the trend, and part of that was people staying in the labor force or just not retiring at the rates they were expected to retire. So maybe this was just catchup on that. I am a believer that, over time, you won’t know how faryou won’t know what can happen with labor force participation in advance. You’re just going to have to give it some time, because we saw that over and over again. There are things that we can, where we can say, you know, this is where the limit is. Labor force participation is a much more flexible subject for me, and so I do think we need to be humble about what the limits are of labor force participation. But we expect labor force participation to pick up. We don’t know the pace at which it will do so. So in terms of full employment, as I discussed earlier, I think, at the very beginning of the recovery, the natural thing to do was to look back at labor conditions, labor market conditions in February of 2010, at the end of the longest expansion in our history. There was so much to like about that labor market, a really historically good labor marketnever perfect, but a good labor market. We’re in a different world now. This is ait’s just very different. The pandemic recession was the deepest, and the recovery has been the fastest. And wages didn’t really go down. And, you know, real incomes were more than fully replaced by fiscal policy [support]. All of this is completely unusual. You know, an economy where inflation was driven by services is now inflation whereall the inflation is in goods, which have had negative inflation for a quartercentury. So you ask about full employment. I think we have toI’m very open to the thought that it’s going to be an empirical question of where it is located, and we’re just going to learn more and more. I mean, one thing we’ll learn, I think, I hope we’ll learn in the next, in the near term is, once the Delta variant really does continue to decline, what’s going to happen to employment? Are we going to start to see over the winter, you know, significant increases in jobs again? If you look back, the three, six, and ninemonth average job creation is between 550,000 and 600,000. So if you think of that as a strongeryou don’t have to think back to the millionjob months of June and July. You can just think, okay, 550 to 600if we should get back on that path, then we would be making good progress, and we like to see that, of course. So we’ll know so much more. And, believe me, we understand. It’s a different world in so many ways. And we’re very open to that.

Thank you.