   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
Transcript of Chairman Powell’s Press Conference 
September 26, 2018 
CHAIRMAN POWELL: Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks f or being here.  I am going 
to start with an overview of how  my colleagues and I see the ec onomy, what we decided today, 
and then a bit about our expecta tions for the months ahead. 
Our economy is strong. Growth is running at a healthy clip.  U nemployment is low, the 
number of people working is ri sing steadily, and wages are up. Inflation is low and stable. All 
of these are very good signs. Of co urse, that’s not to say tha t everything is perfect.  The benefits 
of this strong economy have not  reached all Americans.  Many of  our country’s economic 
challenges are beyond the scope of  the Fed, but my colleagues and I are doing all we can to keep 
the economy strong, healthy, and moving forward.  That is the b est way we can promote an 
environment in which every American has the opportunity to succ eed. 
Each time my colleagues and I meet, we face the same question: How can we set policy 
to best support job growth and low , steady inflation?  For many  years, this question called for 
very low interest rates to hel p an economy that had been damage d by the deep financial crisis 
that gripped the world 10 years ago.  As the economy has steadi ly gained strength, the Fed has 
been gradually returning interest rates closer to levels that a re normal in a healthy economy.  We 
took another step on that path toda y with a quarter-point incre ase in short-term interest rates.  
These rates remain low, and my c olleagues and I believe that th is gradual return to normal is 
helping to sustain this strong economy for the longer-run benef it of all Americans. 
As I mentioned, 10 years have now passed since the depths of th e financial crisis—a 
painful part of our history that cost many Americans their jobs , their homes, and, for some, their 
hopes and dreams.  In addition to holding interest rates low to  support the recovery, we have also 
taken many steps to make the financial system safer.  In partic ular, we’re holding the largest 
Page 1 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
banks to much higher standards in  the amount of capital and liq uidity they hold and in the ways 
they assess and manage the risks  they take.  I am confident tha t the system today is stronger and 
in a far better position to suppor t the financial needs of households and businesses through good 
times and bad.  We continue to work to sustain these fundamental improvements while also 
ensuring that regulation is  both effective and efficient. 
Now, let me go into more detail a bout the developments that mot ivated today’s policy 
decision. Both household spending a nd business investment are expanding briskly, and the 
overall growth outlook remains favorable.  And several factors support this assessment:  Fiscal 
policy is boosting the econom y, ongoing job gains are raising i ncomes and confidence, and 
overall financial conditions remain accommodative.  These condi tions are consistent with our 
Summary of Economic Projections  for this meeting.  The median o f Committee participants’ 
projections for the growth of r eal GDP is 3.1 percent this year  and 2.5 percent next year. 
Job gains averaged 185,000 per month over the last three months , well above the pace 
needed in the longer run to provi de jobs for new entrants to th e labor force.  The unemployment 
rate stood at 3.9 percen t in August and has been near that leve l since April.  Smoothing through 
month-to-month variations, the la bor force participation rate r emains about where it was in late 
2013—a positive sign, given that the aging of our population is  putting downward pressure on 
participation. We expect the job market to remain strong.  And the median of Committee 
participants’ projections for the unemployment rate later this year is 3.7 percent and a bit lower 
than that in 2019. 
Overall consumer prices, as m easured by the price index for per sonal consumption 
expenditures (PCE inflation), increased 2.3 percent over the 12  months ending in July.  The core 
price index, which excludes the prices of energy and food and t ends to be a better indicator of 
Page 2 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
future inflation, rose 2 percent over the same period.  The FOM C seeks, and expects to see, 
inflation remaining near our 2 percent longer-run objective on a sustained basis.  At any given 
time, inflation may be somewhat above or below 2 percent.  For example, the recent rise in oil 
prices has pushed inflation a little above 2 percent, but we ex pect this to be transitory, as is 
reflected in our projections. The median projections for both the overall and core inflation 
measures remain very close to 2 pe rcent across the whole projection horizon. 
 Today the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage 
point, bringing it to 2 to 2¼ percen t.  This action reflects th e strength we see in the economy and 
is one more step in the process that we began almost three year s ago of gradually returning 
interest rates to more normal levels.  Looking ahead, today’s projections show gradual interest 
rate increases continuing roughly as foreseen in June.  The med ian of participants’ views on 
appropriate policy through 2020 are  unchanged since the June me eting. 
These projections play an impor tant role in our work.  My colle agues and I believe that 
it’s useful to communicate our v iews on likely prospects for th e economy and for policy.  We are 
well aware, however, that the ec onomy regularly surprises, and that even the most carefully 
constructed projections are high ly uncertain.  The projections about the appropriate path of 
policy assume that the economy evo lves broadly in line with the  projections for growth, 
employment, unemployment, and inflation.  If the economy were i nstead to falter , lower interest 
rates would be appropriate. Conve rsely, if inflationary pressu res were to rise more than 
expected, higher inte rest rates would be appropriate.  Right no w, as our statement indicates, risks 
to the economic outlook a ppear roughly balanced. 
Readers of the FOMC statement likely noted that the Committee d ropped a sentence that 
indicated that “the stance of m onetary policy remains accommodative.”  This change does not 
Page 3 of 29    
 
  September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
signal any change in the likely pa th of policy; instead, it is a sign that policy is proceeding in line 
with our expectations.  We still expect, as our statement says,  “further gradual increases in the 
target range for the federal funds rate,” and this expectation is reflected in the  projections that I 
just discussed. Thanks very much.  I’m happy to take your ques tions. 
NICK TIMIRAOS. Thank you. Nick Timiraos, the Wall Street Journal. Chair Powell, 
given the lags of monetary pol icy, I want to know how you think  about ending the tightening 
cycle?  How will you know when to stop?  And do you need to kee p going until something in the 
economy breaks? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So the tight ening cycle, as you know, is a re flection of the 
strength of the economy.  And it’ s almost three years now that we’ve been gradually raising 
rates. And I think the fact tha t we have moved quite gradually , in a way, allows us to carefully 
watch incoming data in the real economy and in the financial ma rkets to see how the economy is 
processing higher interest rat es.  And the fact that we’re movi ng so gradually—I think it—I think 
it limits the long and variable lags problem because, you know,  we’re being able to raise rates 
and then wait and see how the econo my absorbs these rate increa ses.  And so far, the economy 
has performed very well and very much in keeping with our expec tations. 
JIM PUZZANGHERA.  Hi, Jim Puzzanghera from the L.A. Times.   President Trump has 
stated publicly he’s not thrilled with the interest rate hikes.  His comments didn’t appear to have 
any impact on you or your colleagues.  Were his comments discussed at your meeting?  And do you have any concerns about the eff ect of these types of commen ts on the perception of the 
Fed’s independence and your monetary policy? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So we’ve been gi ven a really important job to  do on behalf of 
the American people by Congress , and we’ve been given the tools  to do it, and my colleagues 
Page 4 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
and I are focused exclusively on carrying out that mission.  We consider the best thinking, the 
best theory, and the be st evidence.  We have  disparate points o f view, which we debate 
extensively and come to a perspe ctive and try to set monetary p olicy to achieve maximum 
employment in a context of pri ce stability.  That’s what we do.   We don’t consider political 
factors or things like that. A nd so that’s who we are, that’s what we do, and that’s just the way 
it’s always going to be for us. 
STEVE LIESMAN. Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you 
explain how—the stock market be ing at a near all-time high, cor porate spreads being very 
tight—how does the level of the market factor into your decisio ns to raise interest rates?  Is there 
a concern on your part? And then, as sort of a second and rela ted part, can you tell us what 
happens in 2020 and 2021 that—I know you can’t tell us when you ’re shaking your head 
[laughter]—that prompts—that pr ompts you—the Fed to think that the rates need to still be 
above neutral in that time period?  Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Sure. So in ter ms of financial markets and m onetary policy, 
we—as we say in our statement every cycle, we do take financial conditions into consideration because financial—broader financial conditions do affect the br oader economy, and they’re one 
of the many things that we tak e into account.  T he part of it t hat we control, though, is what we 
do with the federal funds rate a nd that has—that has effects ou t through, you know, out through 
the full interest rate curve a nd into financial asset prices ge nerally.  So the answer is, we take 
everything into account, but, you know, broader financial condi tions are just one of the things 
that we take into account. 
In terms of ’20 and ’21, why—your que stion was why the funds ra te needs to be above 
neutral?  So you’re right. Some  of—some of the participants have mostly very modest 
Page 5 of 29    
 
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
overshoots of their personal estimates of neutral a couple—thre e years out.  You know, it’s far 
out into the future. I think it’ s hard to be confident that th at’s—that that’s t he way things are 
going to be. What we’re going to be  doing as we—as we go throu gh time is asking at every 
meeting whether monetary polic y is set to achieve our goals.  And I think that that’s an 
assessment of where policy will  need to be some years down the road, and I’ll leave it at that. 
HOWARD SCHNEIDER. Thanks. Howar d Schneider with Reuters.  Cha ir Powell, I 
think—is this too good to be true?  Because you’ve got four years here of unemployment below 
4 percent—very low, substantiall y below NAIRU, what appears to be NAIRU—but no reaction 
of inflation there. And so I don’t think that’s ever happened since the 1960s.  Why do you think 
it’s going to happen now?  Or in the alternative, is this forec ast for unemployment just being 
driven by your confidence interva ls to the extent that, well, w e don’t know what else to do, so 
just extend the lie out—line out until something happens? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. No, you’re right .  The Committee forecasts wh at they—what 
they show, in general, is an economy where unemployment remains  in the high and middle 3s 
throughout the entire forecast period and inflation remains ver y close to 2 percent.  That is what 
the forecast shows.  And that is based on our understanding of the way the inflation process works now and on the fact that the inflation seems to be fairly  nonreactive to changes in slack— 
that is to say, a flat Phillips curve.  And it’s just—it’s a—it’s a world of strongly anchored inflation expectations.  And that’s not just our forecast, that ’s many forecasts.  So that is—that is 
—that is the forecast.  So you may ask—I mean, the sense is, what does the longer-run natural 
rate of unemployment mean?  And s o that really is a longer-run concept that we think the 
economy will return to over the longer run.  But, obviously, that longer run, you know, isn’t— it’s not creating problems in the  short run for that forecast. 
Page 6 of 29    
 
 
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
Now let’s just admit that the i nflation process  has changed dra matically from where it 
was in the 1960s to where it is now.  It’s in a good place now.   We can’t take for granted that it 
will remain the way it is, and, you know, we will be, of course , watching carefu lly.  If inflation 
reacts more strongly or more weak ly to the strong economy, then  we’ll adjust policy 
appropriately. 
HOWARD SCHNEIDER. If I coul d follow up on that, what are you buying with interest 
rates? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Well, interes t rates, of course, have effects  on growth, have 
effects—I mean if—I guess the —your question was, what are you buying with by raising interest 
rates? The question is, what  would the economy look like if yo u didn’t raise ra tes?  It would 
look very different, I think, if we didn’t raise rates. 
We’re always trying to, you know, w ork our way between the—sort of the two—the two 
problems we face.  One is that  if we move too quickly, we can, you know, snuff out a recovery 
unnecessarily, and inflation falls short of its 2 percent targe t.  Or if we move too slowly, we have 
an economy that can overheat.  So w e’re—that—that’s happened th rough history.  We don’t see 
any signs of that now, but we’re a lways trying to navigate betw een those two shoals.  And we 
think that gradually, you know, rai sing interest rates is the way that we kind of take both of those 
risks seriously. 
SAM FLEMING.  Thanks very much.  Sam Fleming from the Financial Times.  The Fed 
has recently been saying that fin ancial stability risks are mod erate.  What kind of developments 
could prompt a change in that asse ssment to elevated risks?  And is there an argument for 
moving the countercyclical capita l buffer, even when risks are moderate, rather than waiting 
until the risks are seen as elevated, which, arguably, could be  too late?  Thanks. 
Page 7 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So I think one of  the most important lessons from the financial 
crisis is really the importan ce of the stability of the financi al system.  And so we—since the 
financial crisis, as you’re aw are, we’ve had a major focus on b uilding up our monitoring of 
financial conditions and financial  stability issues.  We’ve als o put in place many, many 
initiatives to strengthen the f inancial system through higher c apital and better re gulation, more 
transparency, central clearing, margins on uncleared derivatives, all kinds of things like that, 
which are meant to strengthen the  financial system.  We’ve done many of those things, and we 
feel that the financial system is in a much better place. 
As we look at—as we look at conditions most recently—and this was at our last meeting, 
and it was in our minutes for the last meeting—quarterly, we ha ve a briefing at the FOMC, and 
also at the Board, of the staffs’  views on financial stability,  and the staff judged the overall 
vulnerabilities to be moderate .  If you dig into the different aspects of that que stion, households 
or balance sheets are in good sha pe.  You know, employment is h igh, wages are rising, that sort 
of thing. The banking system, as I mentioned, is—you know, muc h higher capital, much higher 
liquidity—is much stronger.  I f you look at asset prices, it is  true that some asset prices are in the 
upper range of their historical —upper reach of their historical ranges.  And then if you look at 
nonfinancial corporates, you get—th ere is the story of leverage there.  So it’s not that there aren’t 
any vulnerabilities, but we see them as moderate. 
Now, you ask about the countercyc lical capital buffer.  The cou ntercyclical capital buffer 
is a tool that we added to our  toolkit, I think, finally, back in 2016.  We said that we would 
deploy it when vulnerabilities were meaningfully above normal.  We revisit that on a regular 
schedule, and the last time we r evisited it was, I think, last year—sometime last year—and 
concluded that the test was not  met.  As I mentioned at the las t briefing, the—you know, the 
Page 8 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
assessment was that vulnerabili ties were moderate, but it remains a kit—a tool for our toolkit that 
we can deploy, you know, when and as we feel appropriate. 
SAM FLEMING.  Has the chance of  needing to deploy it increased? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. As I said, I think I’m in the camp of seeing vulnerabilities as 
relatively moderate. I think the f inancial system—I think another thing that we learned in the 
crisis is that we need to be alert to the buildup of vulnerabil ities as a long expansion continues.  I 
don’t see that in troubling—troubl ing amounts at this point, but, you know, I think it’s 
appropriate for us to monitor that very carefully. 
MARTY CRUTSINGER. Marty Crutsi nger, Associated Press.  The researchers at the 
European Central Bank this wee k put out a paper saying that the  impact of a trade war on the 
U.S. could be dire, that the  U.S. economy could drop by 2 perce nt in the first year after a 
widespread trade war. Could you talk about the discussion you’ve had—your policy statement, 
does it mention the trade ten sions?  You did not mention them.  What do you—what kind of 
outlook do you have right now for the trade war? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Sure. So I gue ss I need to start by saying t hat we’re not 
responsible for trade polic y, and we don’t comment on particula r, you know, trade actions and 
that sort of thing.  But you will ha ve seen that we have this v ery extensive network of business 
contacts around the country through the Reserve Banks largely, and we’ve been hearing a rising 
chorus of concerns from businesse s all over the country about d isruption of supply chains, 
materials costs and increases, and loss of markets, and things like that.  So we’ve been hearing 
quite a lot of that, and we—the Reserve Bank presidents talk ab out it in the meeting, and it goes 
in the minutes.  So we, you know, tha t’s—we’re very transparent  about hearing a ll that.  I think 
if you look at the aggregate perfor m—the performance of the U.S . economy at an aggregate—at 
Page 9 of 29    
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
a national level, it’s hard to see much happening at this point.  And—or you can look at it the 
other way: You can ask, if all  of the tariffs that have been a nnounced are applied, what would be 
the effect at the aggregate le vel?  And they’re still relativel y small. 
You know, we worry about a couple of things.  One is loss of business confidence, which 
could reduce investment.  Agai n, we don’t really see effects th at we could measure yet.  Also, 
the possibility of a financial market reaction over time to une xpected trade developments.  More 
than anything, though, I would worry, in the longer run, where this is going, you know.  If the— 
if the end place we get to is lower tariffs, that would be good , you know.  Trade generally 
supports productivity, supports higher incomes.  And, you know,  fair trade—fair trade under 
internationally accepted rules can be a good thing.  I think if  this, perhaps inadvertently, goes to a 
place where we have widespread tariffs that remain in place for  a long time—a more 
protectionist world—that’s goi ng to be bad for the United States’ economy and for American 
workers, and families, and also for other economies. 
HEATHER LONG.  Hi, Heather Long from the Washington Post.  This is the third time 
this year that the FOMC has raised its growth forecasts.  I’m w ondering if you could share a little 
bit about what’s causing that rise and whether you see supply-s ide effects coming through from 
the fiscal policy—fiscal stimulus yet.  Thanks. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So it’s true. This year has—we’ve kept raisi ng our forecast for 
this year. This—as the year’s gone on, the economy has come in stronger than we expected, and that’s a really good thing. And the  economy, as I mentioned at  the beginning, is strong, and 
there’s good reason to expect that to continue.  You ask why.  You know, some of it is, no doubt, 
the effect of the fiscal policy c hanges, the tax cuts, and the spending increases—that’s got to be 
part of the story. Part of it may be higher oil prices, which are calling for more investment in the 
Page 10 of 29    
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
oil patch. But, you know, the growt h picture is very much supported by very high readings of 
household confidence, business c onfidence, so it’s a—it’s a—it’ s a—it’s a pretty particularly 
bright moment, I think.  If you look back over the last decade, this is a pretty good moment for 
the U.S. economy. 
HEATHER LONG. And the supply-side effects? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Oh, supply- side effects, yeah.  So, you know,  we hope they’re 
huge, frankly. You know, the idea is, you cut—you reduce taxation on corporations and 
particularly—and allow faster expensing for investment.  The id ea is to encourage more 
investment, and that is one of the things that drives productivity, which is one of the main things that drives rising incomes.  So t he effects are very uncertain,  they’re—you know, they’re—the 
literature is—it’s—there’s no cl ear answer to exactly how these  mechanisms work or how 
effective they are. And it w ould be soon to be seeing supply-s ide effects.  The other—supply-
side effects are probably both more uncertain and they’re proba bly slower to come in.  But, you 
know, as I said, we—I certainly hop e—I hope that we’ll be marki ng up our estimates of potential 
growth as well. 
CRAIG TORRES. Craig Torres from Bloomberg News.  Taking a page  from your risk-
management approach in Jackson H ole, Mr. Chairman, I’m wonderin g if you can talk about what 
risks would make the Committee —plausible risks—go faster in 201 9.  What risks would make 
them go slower?  If you could talk about scenarios. And then I’d like to ask, do you see yourself, as this stimulus tails off, which it does in the forecast, poss ibly cutting rates to soft-land the 
economy?  I know the forecast doesn ’t show that, but I’m curiou s how you soft-land without 
doing that. 
Page 11 of 29    
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Okay, so I thi nk I mentioned in the opening r emarks maybe 
something that addressed your question about what would make us  go faster and slower.  You 
know, the main thing where we mi ght need to move along a little  bit quicker would be if 
inflation—inflation s urprises to the upsid e.  We don’t see that.  We really don’t see that.  It’s not 
in our forecast, but any—so I woul d—I regard that as a risk.  I  think either a significant— 
significant—correction and lasting correction in financial mark ets or a slowing down in the 
economy that’s inconsistent wit h our forecast—those are the kin ds of things we’d react to. 
In terms of what, you know, what we would do—you know, I think we’re always going 
to be adjusting monetary policy to—in light of conditions on th e ground.  So if the economy is 
weakening, then it’s very possible we’d be—we’d be cutting rate s and, you know, vice versa.  
And so I can’t rule that out. I t—I think it’s  quite difficult,  though, to know what the effects— 
what the sort of end effects of  fiscal policy are going to be i n 2020.  It’s difficult to know what 
the policy will be, let alone what their effects will be that f ar out.  So we have to make estimates, 
but we know that they’re highly uncertain. 
EDWARD LAWRENCE. Edward Lawre nce from Fox Business.  Thank you , Chairman.  
The unemployment rate is now at  3.9 percent.  The average hourly wages rose 2.9 percent for the 
past 12 months.  Inflation, according to your numbers, holding steady.  The amount of job 
vacancies that we have out there and the number of people coming back into the workforce this 
year—where is the point at whic h, then, we are actually above the natural rate of unemployment 
and the Federal Reserve should r eexamine the consistency of the rate hikes going forward so not 
to cool an expanding economy? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. You mean—you mean, where’s the point at which  inflation— 
unemployment is too low?  Y eah.  Yeah. You know, so we’ve been —I think the perform—labor 
Page 12 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
force participation has surpri sed us on the upside.  There is a  long-run trend there, and we’ve 
now had basically five flat  years.  If you look—if you look at labor force participation, since the 
fourth quarter of ’13 till now, you really have a—kind of an oscillation that basically is a 
sideways movement in the face of  a significant downward trend, thanks to aging and other 
factors. That’s a gain of well more than a percentage point in  participation, so that’s really— 
that’s really a good thing. Those are people who are remaining  in contact with the labor force 
and looking for jobs, finding jobs .  So that’s a great thing.  
And, by the way, it’s a signal. It’ s one of the things that ha s allowed the unemployment 
rate not to fall further. And it’ s a—it’s a signal, too, that there may be more there on the supply 
side, that there may be more labo r supply than th e prior trend would indicate.  So it’s a very 
positive thing to see people staying in the labor force.  And, you know, we don’t know how long 
it can continue. We have models, and we look at this—we look a t this question all the time.  
And, you know, admittedly, we’ve been surprised on the positive  side here, so we’re open to the 
idea that that may continue or not. 
DONNA BORAK. Hi, Chair. Donna Bor ak with CNN.  Just to follow  up on the tariff 
question, you said earlier that it seems as the effects of the tariff so far haven’t quite 
materialized—those weren’t your w ords verbat[im]—but Wal-Mart, Gap, Coca-Cola, General 
Motors, Macy’s have all said that they expect the tariffs to af fect the prices of everyday 
consumer goods.  So my question is, when—should there be an eff ect—when would you expect 
to see that?  And at what point  do you start to become worried that it’s actual ly going to affect 
consumer spending and dampening economic growth? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. It’s a concern.  It’s a risk. You know, so y ou could see prices 
moving up. You don’t see it yet, but we—you could see retail p rices moving up.  The tariffs 
Page 13 of 29    
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
might provide a basis for companie s to raise prices in a world where they’ve been very reluctant 
to and unable to raise prices, whe re raising prices is really d ifficult, you know, with the ability to 
shop on the internet. This coul d provide, you know, a way for— again, we don’t see it in the 
numbers.  And, you know, until we see it in the numbers, it’s h ard to say how one would react.  
And the other question would be, if you’re just talking about the effect on inflati on is, is it just a 
one-time increase in the price level, or is it actually fueling  higher inflation going forward?  And 
that’s a real—that’s an importa nt question in, in how we would think about the appropriate 
response. 
DONNA BORAK. But is there a sens e of timing, in terms of when you might see that 
kick in, the effect of? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Don’t see it yet.  You know, don’t see it yet, but we—you’re 
hearing—I mean, broadly across the economy, it’s not just tarif fs.  You’re hearing—we’re 
hearing a lot of talk of labor s hortages, of material costs in particular industries.  We’re hearing a 
lot, you know, what amount to supply -side constraints and things like that, but we’re not seeing 
it. We’re seeing a sort of modest  increase in wages, inflation  right around 2 percent, no sense of 
it moving up really, so we’re not seeing it yet.  And, you know , we just aren’t, and we’re 
watching very carefully. 
MICHAEL MCKEE. Mr. Chairman, Michael McKee, Bloomberg Radio and Television.  
Financial conditions are still extremely loose by all the measu res that track that.  The flow of 
funds shows the decline in short-term borrowing other than in T reasuries.  So I’m wondering if 
that suggests a change in the wa y that tightening affects the e conomy.  And along those lines, 
you mentioned that you dropped the word “accommodative” doesn’t  suggest a change in policy.  
But if you’re dropping forward guidance in terms of “accommodat ive,” does the do t plot really 
Page 14 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
serve any purpose anymore if , as you say, you can’t be confident out to 2021 what’s going to 
happen with the economy? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. A couple questions in there.  So the dot plot —I mean, I—it’s 
not new. I don’t think it’s a new point that forecasts two and  three out—two or three years out 
are fairly uncertain. The dot plot  is individual FOMC particip ants who are writing down their 
individual views on the evolu tion of the economy and of appropr iate monetary policy.  We don’t 
vote on that.  These are individual forecasts.  I think market participants generally find that 
interesting information, and so it seems to me to be serving a purpose. 
I think the point with “accommodative” was that its useful life  was over.  You know, we 
put that in the statement in 2015, just when we lifted off, and  the idea was to provide assurance 
that we weren’t trying to slo w down the economy, but, in fact, we were still—interest rates were 
still going to be pushing to suppor t economic activity.  Well, that—you know, that purpose has 
been well served, and the language now doesn’t really say anyth ing that’s important to the way 
the Committee is thinking about policy going forward.  That’s w hy that came out.  Did I get— 
did I get all of your ques—? 
MICHAEL MCKEE. The idea that f inancial conditions remain loose  even though you 
raised rates 200 basis points? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Yeah, you know, it’s—if you look at a broad f inancial 
conditions index, that’s pretty m uch the answer you’ll get.  We  don’t control that, and, as I 
mentioned earlier, we do take fi nancial conditions into account in what we do.  And financial 
conditions are affecting the broader economy, so, by definition, we’re taking them into account.  
But if you look at—look at interest rates, you know, interest r ates—look at long-term interest 
rates this year and short-term int erest rates this year, there’ s very significant increases.  And, you 
Page 15 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
know, with your long and variable lag s, that should be—that sho uld be having an effect over 
time. 
VICTORIA GUIDA. Hi, V ictoria Guida with Politico.  So Nellie L iang was just put 
forward by President Donald Trum p to the Fed Board, and I was j ust curious, you know, given 
that she’s a longtime veteran of the Fed, whether you could spe ak to what role you played in, you 
know, recommending candidates to the President, giving input on who he should nominate.  And 
then also, if I—if I may follo w up on the financial stability d iscussion from earlier, you know, 
you’ve mentioned before that corpor ate debt is at high levels, and I was curious whether, you 
know, you have any qualms about loosening up restrictions on le veraged lending by making that 
guidance less of a—less of a cudgel, I guess, while—at a time when leveraged lending is gaining steam? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Okay, so in terms of nominations to the Fed, those are entirely, 
completely under the control of  the White House and, ultimately , the President.  And 
traditionally, the Fed Chair has been consulted on those, and I ’m happy to say that that has 
continued. But these are—these are really decisions for the Wh ite House, and, you know, we 
are—think of us as just being c onsulted.  I will say that I’m v ery happy and excited about the 
team that we’re putting together , and I’m very much looking forward to having those offices up 
and down our hall filled.  It’s b een pretty quiet, more quieter  than usual, which is saying 
something on the Board hall.  S o we’re looking forward to getti ng some people confirmed. 
In terms of corporate debt, so t his is a—this is a—you know, I was an investor for a long 
time in areas that were very clo se to the leveraged lending markets.  So, you know, I have had a 
lot of experience in that. That m arket has evolved really sign ificantly since before the crisis.  
And, you know, the banks take much l ess risk than they used to.  They’re—the—they’re 
Page 16 of 29    
 
  September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
essentially in the business of distributing these loans and bon ds rather than keeping them on their 
balance sheet, to a much greater  degree.  But it’s also true—an d there’s significant research on 
this—that excessive risk-taking in the leveraged lending market s does have channels for 
affecting the real economy, if there’s overheating and that kin d of thing in those markets, so we 
monitor that carefully. You know , the guidance is —isn’t binding, as you pointed out, that the 
leveraged lending isn’t binding, a nd that’s just—that’s just th e way that the law is interpreted.  
So it’s something we’re monito ring, and, as I mentioned, we think overall vulnerabilities are 
moderate. 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  Binya Appelbaum, the New York Times.   If I could come 
back to “accommodative,” do you think of policy as accommodativ e at present?  How close are 
you to neutrality, and do you share t he view of some of your co lleagues that you’ll eventually 
need to be restrictive? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Okay, so are we accommodative now?  So I thin k if you look at 
the—look at the dot plot in the S EP, you’ll see that the federa l funds rate, even after today’s 
move, is below the longer-run neu tral estimate of every single participant that—who submits a— 
an estimate of that.  So that’s why this is the perfect time to take the language out, because, you 
know, it’s perfectly clear that there can’t be a signal because, you know, by definition, that 
means an accommodative policy.  So it wasn’t because policy is not accommodative.  It is still 
accommodative.  The thinking was more, as I mentioned, it’s mor e that the language has run its 
useful life. 
There’s another point, th ough, too, which is, you know, we don’ t want to suggest either 
that we have this precise understanding of where “accommodative ” stops or suggest that that’s a 
really important point in our  thinking.  You know, what we’re g oing to be doing, assuming we 
Page 17 of 29    
 
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
stay on this path, is, we’re going to be carefully monitoring i ncoming data from the financial 
markets and from the economy a nd asking ourselves whether our policy is achieving the goals 
we want to achieve—you know, sustai n the economy, maximum emplo yment, stable prices.  
That’s the way we’re thinking about it, and that does kind of a mount to thinking less about one’s 
precise point estimate of the ne utral rate.  So that’s how I think about that. 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  The second question was, do you think you’ re going to end 
up in a restrictive posture?  Gove rnor Brainard, for example, has said that she expects that you 
will need to do that. Do you agree with that? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. It’s possible. It’s very possible.  It happens often.  And, as I 
mentioned, many of the participan ts have written that down, and  they’ve written down really 
modest overshoots, you know, amoun ting to one rate hike kind of  thing, which wouldn’t have a 
big effect on the economy.  
You know, it—I would just say, you know, it really depends on w hat happens.  It 
depends on if we keep going—you can t hink of it different ways.   Maybe we’ve underestimated 
the neutral rate. Maybe we’ll  be raising our estimate of the n eutral rate and we’ ll just go to that, 
or maybe we’ll keep our neutral rate here and then go one or tw o rate increases beyond it.  I 
think it’s very possible, but I mean, ultimately, isn’t really the question we’re  answering.  The 
question we’re answering is, how  do we provide the economy just the right amount of support— 
not too much, not too little—to susta in the recovery and achieve our statutory goals? 
GREG ROBB. Thank you, Mr. Chairma n.  Greg Robb from MarketWatc h.  The 10-year 
anniversary of the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers got a lot of attention over the last month.  I 
was wondering if you thought there w ere any lessons from the cr isis that you want to share—and 
two points on that. You go to Congress a lot and talk to members of Congress.  Now, Secretary 
Page 18 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
Paulson and Mr. Geithner and Chair Bernanke have said that Cong ress made a mistake when it 
took away the Fed’s emergency powers in Dodd-Frank. And then o ne other thing is that, are you 
confident that all these  nonbanks didn’t—you know, nonbanks never got put into the, you know, 
the FSOC, you know, system.  So are you confident that the—you can see the risks in the 
financial system?  Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So, three things there.  The first thing is the single biggest thing 
I think that we learned was th e—as I mentioned, I think, earlie r, the importance of maintaining 
the stability of the financial system.  So I think if you look— if you look back at the way the 
models worked and the way people thought about risk in the econ omy, that’s what was missing, 
and I think it’s not missing anymore.  So we—you know, we put a tremendous focus on that.  
We raised capital, liquidity. We  have stress tests, which force banks to understand—the largest 
banks particularly—to understand and better manage their risk and have enough capital to 
survive a really substantial shock that’s at least as bad as th e financial crisis.  And if all that 
doesn’t work, we’ve got resolution plans, which we’ve, you know , through many cycles, have 
made really substantial progre ss, more than I had thought was l ikely.  So we’ve done a lot. 
Nobody’s—you know, nobody is, I think, overc onfident that we’ve solved every problem.  And, 
you know, now we’re going back and kind of taking a hard look a t everything and, you know, 
trying to make—trying to—t rying to keep at it. 
So I think those are the rea lly important lessons, and, you know, we—we’re determined 
not to, you know, not to forget them .  And that’s, I think, a r isk now—is to—is to forget things 
that we—that we learned. That’ s just human nature over time. 
I saw the article you’re talking about; the question is, did Congress take things away, 
emergency powers from the Fed?  S o there was sort of a trade for taking away our power under 
Page 19 of 29    
 
 
  
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
13, section 13(3), to provide s upport to individual nonbanks, w hich is really holding companies 
and other companies. In exchange for that, we got orderly liqu idation authority and a resolution 
authority. Was it a mistake?  I don’t think there’s any sense that Congress would seriously look 
at changing that. I have real  doubts about whether it was wise  to take away our crisis-fighting 
tools. I think you put them away, and you hope you never need them, but—and I certainly 
strongly oppose efforts to tak e away more of our tools. 
You know, the third thing you ment ioned is the designation powe r.  So it’s a really 
important power.  In my mind, it should be used—my thinking, it  should be used sparingly, and 
that means, you know, in situations where you have—I mean, in principle, you could have 
another Lehman Brothers come up out of the ground that’s not a bank, and it could be very 
threatening—or it could be capab le of creating systemic risk.  And so I think it’s a critical power 
to have. But, again, I would use it—I would tend to use it fairly sparingly. 
NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER .  Nancy Marshall-Genzer with Marketplace.  Are you 
worried about the effect of risi ng interest rates on consumers? Credit card rates have jumped to 
more than 17 percent since the Fe d started raising interest rat es.  Mortgage rates are up. What do 
you say to consumers? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Yeah, we look—of  course, we look at that very  carefully, and 
interest rates are going up acro ss a broad range of consumer bo rrowing, as they would when we 
raise short-term interest ra tes.  They’re still quite low by hi storical levels.  And the other thing 
I’ll say is, take—if you take  housing, if you look at the NAR A ffordability Index, housing is still 
more affordable now than it was be fore the financial crisis.  S o you’re right that the cost of 
borrowing is going up, but it’s going up from what were extraor dinarily low levels, and it is 
Page 20 of 29    
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
something that we watch carefully.  You know, the effect on consumer spending is a very 
important channel through whic h interest rates work, and so we do monitor the effects. 
HANNAH LANG. Hi , Hannah Lang, American Banker.  OCC’s decision to go at CRA 
alone suggests that there’s som e sort of disagreement among how  to proceed with a joint plan.  
What are the issues that are preventing a joint plan from developing, and how close are you to a possible joint plan? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Well, at th e Fed, we are, you know, deeply co mmitted to the 
mission of CRA, which is for banks  to provide credit and other banking services in the 
communities they serve.  And we  have also been of the view for some time that with the 
evolution of technology particular ly and changes—changes in the  nature of banking, that it’s an 
appropriate time—it’s past an a ppropriate time, but now it’s ce rtainly an appropriate time to 
revisit the way we think about CRA.  But we don’t want to lose that focus on community, and, 
you know, we definitely want to see that fundamental purpose of the law sustained.  Many of the 
issues that we had were reflect ed in the OCC’s ANPR, and we’re— we’re hopeful that, over time, 
there will be a joint proposed r ulemaking with the OCC, the FDI C, and the Fed.  It’s a process, 
and, you know, we’re very much interested in continuing to push it forward. 
STEVE BECKNER. Steve Beckner, f reelance journalist filing for NPR.  Mr. Chairman, 
following up on the neutral rate  issue—and you touched on this— but, you know, you and your 
colleagues slightly lifted the longer-run estimate, the neutral  funds rate estimate to 3 percent, but 
that’s still, I believe, like 125 basis points below where it w as six years ago.  What are the odds 
that productivity, you know, investment, productivity, labor ma rket, other developments could 
further push up the longer-run estimate and possibly make the p rojected funds rate levels less 
restrictive than they now seem? 
Page 21 of 29    
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So, in principle,  the—these starred variables—the long-run 
growth rate of the economy, the neutral ra te of interest, the n atural rate of unemployment—don’t 
move quickly. They move very gr adually.  They’re  pinned down b y longer-run forces, like 
demographics.  In the case of the funds rate, it’s more—it’s pr oductivity—it’s appetite for safe 
assets and demographics and other things, too.  So they move quite slowly through time. 
I think we all look at them—those of us who file SEPs every quarter will look at that 
every quarter and not make a cha nge every quarter but, every no w and again, make a change.  
And you’re right—we actually—t he median ticked up a tenth.  It’ s a tenth we’re talking about 
here, so—but still, I think it’ s a positive thing that people could be raising their estimates of the 
longer-run neutral rate and poten tially the longer-run growth r ate.  Who knows?  And maybe 
reducing their level of the natural rate of unemployment, which  has been the trend.  It’s just that 
you change those estimates over time.  They’re informed by inco ming data.  They don’t change a 
lot, though, although they did—it’s interesting that  the neutra l rate changed quite sharply after 
the financial crisis in many di fferent models, and it’s been slow to recover.  I don’t expect a 
dramatic recovery there, but, you know, we—we’re so bad at fore casting productivity.  It’s just 
very hard to know when productiv ity is going to arrive and in w hat quantity.  So I think we have 
to be humble about how little we re ally know about where these starred value variables either are 
or are going. 
PAUL KIERNAN. Hi, Chairman.  Paul  Kiernan from Dow Jones Newsw ires.  Thank 
you for taking the question. I’d lik e to just kind of ask agai n—you mentioned earlier that 
gradual—a gradual pace of rate increases will make it easier to react.  But, specifically, what are 
you going to be looking to see, because you’ve also mentioned, you know, that monetary policy operates with a lag, so any kind of specific signposts that may be we’ve reached the end of the 
Page 22 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
tightening cycle or where we s hould stop?  Secondly, if you wor ry about the divergence between 
interest rates in the U.S. and internationally, especially at a  time when emerging markets are 
under pressure. Thanks. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Sure. So, you know , some of the things that we’d be looking at 
to tell us whether we’re getti ng close to supply-side limits wo uld be, first, does job growth slow 
down?  A slowing down in job grow th would be an indicator, you know.  An unexpectedly sharp 
increase in wages or infla tion could tell you that you’re reach ing those points.  You know, if 
headline growth slowed down, that’ s another one.  So all of those things would be worth taking 
into consideration. 
I think also, though, we’ve seen s ometimes sharp tightening in financial conditions, as we 
saw at the beginning of 2016, can ha ve a substantial effect pre tty quickly on our economy if it’s 
a broad and significant tight ening.  So we would be looking for  those kinds of things and many 
other things. 
So, in terms of divergence, yes.  So the U.S. economy is, as I mentioned, is strong and is 
at a pretty positive moment, you know, with strong growth, heal thy labor market, inflation right 
on target, as I mentioned.  So—a nd we’ve seen growth abroad, bu t growth, I think, both in 
advanced economies and in some emerging economies has slowed do wn a little bit.  And in that 
world, you know, if the U.S. is stro nger, then that’s just part  of the context, part of the 
environment that could mean a  higher dollar.  It could be—it co uld therefore mean that some of 
our demand will wind up being shared with other economies.  That’s the way the integrated 
international economy works.  So you could see that, and, you k now, it’s just—it’ s just all of 
the—all things tha t go into thinking about, you know, the path of the economy. 
Page 23 of 29    
 
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
I would say, you know, we’re not res ponsible for the dollar.  O f course, the Treasury is 
responsible for managing the dol lar, but the dollar has only partly recovered the decline that it 
had in 2017. It’s moved up off its lows, but it’s not as high as it was at the beginning of last year 
yet by a significant margin. 
JEAN YUNG. Hi. Jean Yung with Mar ket News International.  Can  you give us an 
update on the technical adjustment in implementing monetary pol icy that the Fed made earlier 
this year when it decoupled the i nterest on excess reserves rat e from the upper bound of the 
target range?  And have you bee n happy with that adjustment?  A nd do you see the need to make 
another such adjustment in the near future? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So we’ve said that we would use our tools to assure that the 
federal funds rate trains—trade s within the target range.  And the principal tools we use have 
been interest on excess reserv es and then, at the bottom end, a reverse repo facility.  So we—in 
June, when we raised rates, we only raised the interest on exce ss reserves by 20 basis points and 
raised the range by 25, and that move d federal funds sort of back into the range.  It worked, and 
it was successful. The federal  funds rate traded in the low 19 0s, well within the range. We 
may—we may do that again.  You know , we—again, we have our tools, and we will use them.  
We think it’s principally a f unction just of a number of things , but particularly high Treasury 
supply, and—which is showing up in repo rates and then showing up in fed funds as well.  So we 
don’t see it as a—as a big problem.  We see it as a problem we can address with our tools, and 
we’ll use them if we have to. 
COURTENAY BROWN. Hi, Chairman.  C ourtenay Brown from Axios.  L ast month, 
the CEA outlined a different way to calculate wage growth.  Has  the Fed looked at th at at all, and 
what are you seeing in terms of non wage-based compensation? 
Page 24 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So I wouldn’t co mment on a CEA paper, and I would imagine 
they probably wouldn’t comment on our stuff, either, but I woul d just say this.  So I am familiar 
with the question and the work. You know, we look—we look at a  range of indicators of wages, 
and I think the broader, the better.  You really—in a perfect—a perfect wage measure would also 
include benefits, because a lot of compensation these days shows up in the form of benefits rather than wages, so I think it’ s right to choose those broade r ones. 
But they’re kind of all telling the same story right now.  If y ou look at the principal four 
that we look at—we look at a w hole range of wage and benefit co st indicators—they are all now 
showing wages and benefits around 3 percent growth, right?  Clu stered around 3 percent.  That’s 
a full percentage point higher th an it was five years ago.  Tha t’s a good thing.  Then the 
question—the other question is , what about inflation?  You know , if you’re—if you’re looking 
for real wage increases, you’ ve got to ask inflation, and there , you have to pick an inflation 
measure.  Some people pick CPI .  We, of course, pick personal consumption expenditures 
because we think it’s a little better measure.  It’s a little b roader, and it tends to run a little bit 
lower as well, but that’s not w hy we pick it.  We just think it’s more accurate.  And that—the 
trend there is running around 2 perc ent, so if wages are runnin g at rough—wages and benefits 
running at roughly 3 percent and in flation running at around 2 percent.  PCE headline inflation is 
at 2.3 percent. PCE core is at a bout 2, and I think we see tha t, you know, the temporary increase 
in headline inflation as bei ng a function of oil prices probabl y, and we expect inflation to go back 
down to 2 percent. So we think of t hat as 2 percent.  That’s how we think about it.  Is that—I 
hope that helps. 
MYLES UDLAND. Myles Udland, Yahoo F inance.  Chair Powell, I wa nt to follow up 
on something you said, actually, at Ja ckson Hole.  You were talking about longer-te rm structural 
Page 25 of 29    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
challenges for the economy, and you mentioned that addressing the federal budget deficit, which 
has long been on an unsustainable path, becomes increasingly important as a larger share of the population retires. I’m just wondering if you could, you know,  maybe expand on your thoughts 
there and if this is an issue th at comes up among members of th e FOMC at all. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So it doesn’t really come up.  It’s not reall y our job.  And we 
do—we do monetary policy. We regulate financial institutions, financial stability, that sort of 
thing. We don’t have responsibil ity for fiscal policy.  But in the longer-run, fiscal policy will 
have a significant effect on the economy, so for that reason, I think my predecessors have 
commented on fiscal policy. But the y’ve commented on—at a high  level rather than trying to 
get involved in particular , you know, particular measures.  And  so—and I—my plan is to kind of 
stick to the same appro ach and stay in our lane. 
And, you know—so I would just say, it’s—it’s no secret, it’s been true for a long time 
that with our uniquely expensive he alth-care delivery system and the aging of our population, 
we’ve been on an unsustainable fiscal path for a long time, and  there’s no hiding from it.  In the 
end, we will have to face that, and I think, you know, the sooner, the better.  And also, these are good times.  These are, you know, this is—this is the economy a t nearly full employment or in 
the range—in the neighborhood of f ull employment.  Interest rat es are low.  It’s a—it’s a good 
time to be addressing these thi ngs.  So I just—I put that out there and leave it at that. 
TAKESHI KAWANAMI. I’m Takeshi Kawanami from Nikkei newspaper. Thank you 
for taking my question. I’d like to ask about emerging markets.  What do you think about impact of U.S. monetary policy on emergi ng markets—interest rate, curr ency depreciation, or capital 
outflow from emerging countri es?  And do you think there is a p ossibility to stop t he interest rate 
hike due to emerging markets turmoil—due to turmoil in emerging  markets? 
Page 26 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Sorr y, the second question was? 
TAKESHI KAWANAMI. There is a possibility to stop the . . . 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Oh, to stop. TAKESHI KAWANAMI. . . . hike. CHAIRMAN POWELL. Well, we serve a domestic mandate, which is a ssigned to us by 
Congress, and that is to have max imum employment and stable pri ces.  About half of global 
GDP is outside the United States,  and way more than half of the  growth is outside the United 
States and in emerging markets,  I should say.  And so the perfo rmance in the emerging market 
economies really, really matte rs to us in carrying out our dome stic mandate.  I’d also say that, 
you know, a strong U.S. economy, where Americans are buying thi ngs and the economy is 
growing and our—you know, that’s going to support demand all around the globe, so that’s a 
good thing. 
Now, we do understand, though, that when we—when our economy is  strong and we’re 
raising rates, that puts upward pressure on interest rates arou nd the world and can affect 
countries, particularly countries  that have significant externa l dollar borrowing.  And what we try 
to do is be very transparent a bout what we’re doing and why.  A nd we have been, I believe, and 
we’ve also moved quite gradually.  So I—you know, I think we’ve been performing well on that front. 
There are some countries that are—that are undergoing severe stress, a handful of them, 
and—but not most emerging market countries.  It’s a relatively small number, and those 
particular countries have,  you know, have particular vulnerabil ities, which are w ell known in the 
form of budget deficits, and significant external dollar borrow ings, and high inflation, and things 
like that. So, again, we’ll cont inue to conduct U.S. monetary policy as transparently as we 
Page 27 of 29    
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
possibly can, and that’s really  the best thing we can do, along with supporting U.S. growth.  I’ll 
just—I think that answers both your questions, actually. 
VIRGINIE MONTET. Virginie Montet with Agence France-Presse.  Y ou mentioned 
earlier a possible, not probable , correction, and I want to com e back to the high level of the stock 
market.  Are there any participants to the FOMC to think that w e are witnessing an episode of 
irrational exuberance or rationa l exuberance?  And if there was a steep correction, would it 
provoke financial stability concerns? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. So I don’t comme nt on the appropriateness of the level of stock 
prices. I can say that by some valuation measures, they’re in the upper range of their historical 
value ranges. But, you know, I wouldn’ t want to—I wouldn’t want to speculate about what the 
consequences of a market corr ection should be.  You know, we would—we would look very 
carefully at the nature of it, a nd I mean, it—really—really what hurts is if consumers are 
borrowing heavily and doing so against, for example, an asset that can fall in value.  So that’s a 
really serious matter when you have a housing bubble and highly  levered consumers and housing 
values fall. And we know that that’s a really bad situation.  A simple drop in equity prices is— 
all by itself, doesn’t really have those features.  It could certainly feature—it could certainly 
affect consumption and have a ne gative effect on the economy, though. 
MARK HAMRICK. Thank you, Mr. Chair man.  Mark Hamrick with Bank rate.com . 
One thing that’s changed since the crisis is, the majority of m ortgages issued last year came from 
so-called nonbank lenders, as trad itional banks scaled back.  W hat confidence do you have about 
supervision and, I suppose, also regulation in this space given  the role of housing finance in the 
crisis?  Thank you. 
Page 28 of 29    
 
 
 September 26, 2018 Chairman Powe ll’s Press Conference FINAL 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. It’s a good que stion.  So you’re right that a  lot of mortgages are 
now originated outside the s ystem.  Many of those, though, have  to meet certain basic standards 
to be bought by the GSEs. I think we—if we look at mortgage cr edit more broadly, though, what 
we see is that credit is pretty widely available to people with  high scores and with good credit— 
good credit records, and much, much  less available than it was before the crisis to people with 
low scores and perhaps troubled credit history. You know, it’s —have we—have we set—have 
we got that exactly right?  I  don’t know.  I mean, I—but that’s  clearly—that’s the reality.  In 
terms of those institutions, t hey do have supervision by the CF PB and other state regulators.  But 
you’re right. They’re much—much of the origination process has  moved outside the banking 
system, and it’s something we monitor. 
Page 29 of 29 