Good afternoon. I would like to start by noting that it has been a full year since the pandemic arrived with force on our shores. Looking back, it was clear that addressing a fastmoving global pandemic would be plainly and primarily the realm of health care providers and experts, and we are grateful to them and to all the essential workers for their service and sacrifice. The danger to the U.S. economy was also clear. Congress provided by far the fastest and largest response to any postwar economic downturn, offering fiscal support for households, businesses, healthcare providers, and state and local governments. Here at the Federal Reserve, we rapidly deployed our full range of tools to provide relief and stability, to ensure that the recovery will be as strong as possible, and to limit lasting damage to the economy. We are strongly committed to achieving the monetary policy goals that Congress has given us: maximum employment and price stability. The economic fallout has been real and widespread, but with the benefit of perspective, we can say that some of the very worst economic outcomes have been avoided by swift and forceful actionfrom Congress, from across government, and in cities and towns across the country. More people held on to their jobs, more businesses kept their doors open, and more incomes were saved as a result of these swift and forceful policy actions. And while we welcome these positive developments, no one should be complacent. At the Fed, we will continue to provide the economy the support that it needs for as long as it takes. Today the FOMC kept interest rates near zero and maintained our sizable asset purchases. These measures, along with our strong guidance on interest rates and on our balance sheet, will ensure that monetary policy will continue to deliver powerful support to the economy until the recovery is complete. The path of the economy continues to depend significantly on the course of the virus and the measures undertaken to control its spread. Since January, the number of new cases, hospitalizations, and deaths has fallen, and ongoing vaccinations offer hope for a return to more normal conditions later this year. In the meantime, continued observance of socialdistancing measures and wearing masks will help us reach that goal as soon as possible. The economic recovery remains uneven and far from complete, and the path ahead remains uncertain. Following the moderation in the pace of the recovery that began toward the end of last year, indicators of economic activity and employment have turned up recently, although the sectors of the economy most adversely affected by the resurgence of the virus and by greater social distancing remain weak. Household spending on goods has risen notably so far this year. In contrast, household spending on services remains low, especially in services that typically require people to gather closely, including travel and hospitality. The housing sector has more than fully recovered from the downturn, while business investment and manufacturing production have also picked up. The overall recovery in economic activity since last spring is due importantly to unprecedented fiscal and monetary policy actions, which have provided essential support to households, businesses, and communities. The recovery has progressed more quickly than generally expected, and forecasts from FOMC participants for economic growth this year have been revised up notably since our December Summary of Economic Projections. In commenting on the stronger outlook, participants noted progress on vaccinations as well as recent fiscal policy. As with overall economic activity, conditions in the labor market have turned up recently. Employment rose by 379,000 in February, as the leisure and hospitality sector recouped about twothirds of the jobs that were lost in December and January. Nonetheless, employment in this sector is more than 3 million below its level at the onset of the pandemic. For the economy as a whole, employment is 9.5 million below its prepandemic level. The unemployment rate remains elevated at 6.2 percent in February; this figure understates the shortfall in employment, particularly as participation in the labor market remains notably below prepandemic levels. Looking ahead, FOMC participants project the unemployment rate to continue to decline; the median projection is 4.5 percent at the end of this year and moves down to 3.5 percent by the end of 2023. The economic downturn has not fallen equally on all Americans, and those least able to shoulder the burden have been the hardest hit. In particular, the high level of joblessness has been especially severe for lowerwage workers in the service sector and for African Americans and Hispanics. The economic dislocation has upended many lives and created great uncertainty about the future. Overall inflation remains below our 2 percent longerrun objective. Over the next few months, 12month measures of inflation will move up as the very low readings from March and April of last year fall out of the calculation. Beyond these base effects, we could also see upward pressure on prices if spending rebounds quickly as the economy continues to reopen, particularly if supply bottlenecks limit how quickly production can respond in the near term. However, these onetime increases in prices are likely to have only transient effects on inflation. The median inflation projection of FOMC participants is 2.4 percent this year and declines to 2 percent next year before moving back up by the end of 2023. The Fed’s response to this crisis has been guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people, along with our responsibilities to promote the financialthe stability of the financial system. As we say in our Statement on LongerRun Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, we view maximum employment as a “broad based and inclusive goal.” Our ability to achieve maximum employment in the years ahead depends importantly on having longerterm inflation expectations well anchored at 2 percent. As the Committee reiterated in today’s policy statement, with inflation running persistently below 2 percent, we will aim to achieve inflation moderately above 2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2 percent over time and longerterm inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. We expect to maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these employment and inflation outcomes are achieved. With regard to interest rates, we continue to expect it will be appropriate to maintain the current 0 to ¼ percent target range for the federal funds rate until labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee’s assessment of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2 percent and is on track to moderately exceed 2 percent for some time. I would note that a transitory rise in inflation above 2 percent, as seems likely to occur this year, would not meet this standard. In addition, we will continue to increase our holdings of Treasury securities by at least $80 billion per month and of agency mortgagebacked securities by at least $40 billion per month until substantial further progress has been made toward our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. The increase in our balance sheet since last March has materially eased financial conditions and is providing substantial support to the economy. The economy is a long way from our employment and inflation goals, and it is likely to take some time for substantial further progress to be achieved. Our forward guidance for the federal funds rate, along with our balance sheet guidance, will ensure that the stance of monetary policy remains highly accommodative as the recovery progresses. Our guidance is outcome based and ties the path of the federal funds rate and the balance sheet to progress toward reaching our employment and inflation goals. Overall, our interest rate and balance sheet tools are providing powerful support to the economy and will continue to do so. To conclude, we understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We are committed to using our full range of tools to support the economy and to help assure that the recovery from this difficult period will be as robust as possible. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

[Laughter] Not yet. So, as youas you pointed out, we’ve said that we would continue asset purchases at this pace until we see substantial further progress. And that’s actual progress, not forecast progress. Soand that’s a difference from, from our past approach. Soand what we mean by that is, is pretty straightforward. It is, we want to see that, that the labor markets have movedlabor market conditions have movedyou know, have made substantial progress toward maximum employment, and inflation has made substantial progress toward the 2 percent goal. That’s what we’re going to want to see. Now, that obviously includes an element of judgment. And when we seewe’ll bewe’ll be carefully looking ahead. We, we also understand that we, we will want to provide as much advance notice of any potential taper as possible. So when we see that we’re on track, when we see actual data coming in that suggests that we’re on track to perhaps achieve substantial further progress, then we’ll say so. And we’ll say so well in advance of any decision to actually taper.

I, I don’t see that at all. You know, we, we have a, a range of perspectives on the Committee. I welcome that. And, you know, we, we havewe debate things, we discuss things, and we always come together around aaround a, a solution. But, you know, the, the strong bulk of the Committee is, is not showing a rate increase during this forecast period. And, you know, as, as data improve, as the outlook improves very significantly since the December meeting, you would expect forecasts to move up. It’s probably not a surprise that some people would bring in their estimate of the appropriate time for liftoff. Nonetheless, you know, the bulk of the Committeethe, the largest part by far of the Committee is, isdoesn’t show a rate increase during this period. And, again, part of that is wanting to see actual data rather than just a forecast at this point. We do expect that we’ll begin to make faster progress on both spendingyou know, labor markets and inflation as the year goes on because of the progress with the vaccines, because of the fiscal support that we’re getting. We expect that to happen. But, you know, we’ll have to see it first.

Victoria, we’ll have something to announce on that in coming days. And I’m not going to expound upon your questions. Why don’t youwhy don’t you ask another question if you’d like to? Because, because that oneI’m just going to say that we’ll have something in coming days.

Well, let me say, as we say in our Statement on LongerRun Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, we look to a range of indicators on the labor market. We never only looked at the unemployment rate, which is the only indicator of, of labor market outcomes that’s in the SEP. We look at a very broad range. You hear us talk all the time about participation; about employment to population, which is the combination of the two; about different measures of, of unemployment. So it’s wages, it’s, it’s the job flows, it’s, you know, all of those things. They go into an assessmentdisparities of various groups. All that goes into an assessment of maximum employment. The, thetrying to incorporate all of that into the Summary of Economic Projections would not be practical. You know, obviously, the thing that we do include is just the unemployment rate, and that’s a very insufficient statistic. Soit, it doesn’t include a lot of other things that wethat we do look at. And I, I wouldn’t want to say that we’re looking to include the other dozen things that we look at into the SEP. But at timefrom time to time, we do look at, at adding different things. But I, I would just say the SEP is, it’s a summary. It’s one device. It’s not going to include all of the things that we look at. I think you know the things that we look atwe, we talk about them all the time. So we’re not actually looking actively at significantly broadening those indicators in the SEP right now.

So I guess the first thing to say is that the, the SEP is not a Committee forecast. It’s, it’s not something we sit around and debate and discuss and approve, and say, “This represents our, you know, our reaction function as a Committee.” It’s a compilation of projections from different people. And Isince we don’t debate it or discuss it, it would be hard for me to say whyexactly why each participant did what they were going to do. So all I would say about this is that we’vewe laid out what I think is very clear guidance on liftoff. And it’s really three things: labor market conditions that are consistent with our estimates of maximum employmentand, as I mentioned, we consider a wide range of indicators in assessing labor market conditions, not just the unemployment rate; inflation that has reached 2 percent, and not just on a transitory basis; and inflation that’s on track to run moderately above 2 percent for some time. The first two of those three are very much data based; the third does have a little bit of aof an element of expectations in it. So we are very much determined to implement this guidance in a robust way. It is the guidance that we chose carefully to implement our new framework. And to meet these standards, we’ll need to see data, as I mentioned. So what doeswhat does this, this SEP really say? It says that we’re committed to our framework and to the guidance we’ve provided to implement that framework. We will wait until the requirements set forth in that guidance are clearly met before considering a change in our policy rate. And the last thing I’ll say is this: The state of the economy in two or three years is highly uncertain, and I wouldn’t want to focus too much on the exact timing of a potential rate increase that far into the future. So that’s how I would think about the, the SEP.

So we’ve said we’d like to see inflation run moderately above 2 percent for some time. And we’ve resisted, basically, generally, the temptation to try to quantify that. Part of that just is, talking about inflation is one thing; actually having inflation run above 2 percent is the real thing. So Iyou know, over the years we’ve, we’ve talked about 2 percent inflation as a goal, but we haven’t achieved it. So I, I would say we’d like to, you know, perform. That’s what we’d really like to do, is to get inflation moderately above 2 percent. I don’t want to be too specific about what that means, because I think it’s hard to do that. And we haven’t done it yet. You know, when we’re actually above 2 percent, we can do that. Ilook, I, I would say this. The fundamental change in, in our framework is that we, we’re not going to act preemptively based on forecasts for the most part. And we’re going to wait to see actual data. And I think it will take people time to, to adjust to thatand to adjust to that new practice. And the only way we can really build the credibility of that is by doing it. So that’s how I would think about that.

So, on, on herd immunity, I, I’m really going to leave that question to the experts. We don’t control that. We’re not responsible for defining it. And we’ll, we’ll leave that whole discussion to the experts. I mean, we’rewhat we’re focused on is, is the part that we control, which is the support that we provide to the economy. And there we’ve provided very clear guidance. And in the case of asset purchases, it’s at their current level until we make substantial further progress. There is an element of judgment in that, and we’ll, we’ll therefore, we’ll supply clear communication well in advance of, of actually tapering, and we just went through, you know, the, the criteria for raising interest rates. They’re very specific. And, you know, we’re, we’re very much committed to having them fulfilled robustly. I, I would agree with you that the, the path of the virus continues to be very important. We, we have these, you know, new strains withwhich, which can be quite virulent. And we’re not actually done yet. And I, Iwe’re clearly on a good path with, with cases coming down, as I mentioned, but we’re not done. And I’d hate to see us take our eye off the ball before we actually finish the job. So that’s how I would look at that.

I think there’s some of that. Sure, there’ll be some of that. There will still be some social distancing. People may be, for example, going into spaces that, that, you know, that involve close contact with others. Some people will do that right away. Others will hold back. And so I think there’llthere’ll be some of that. In addition, though, remember, there arethere are 10 million peoplein the range of 10 million people who need to get back to work. And it’s going to take some time for that to happen. You know, it canit can happen maybe, maybe more quickly than it has in the past, because it involves the reopening of a sector of the economy, as opposed to stimulating aggregate demand and waiting for that to produce job demand for workers. This could be a different sort of a process. And it could be quicker. We don’t know that. But it’s, it’s just a lot of people who havewho need to get back to work. And it’s not going to happen overnight. It would beit’s going to take some time. No matter how well the economy performs, unemployment will take quite a time to goto go down, and so will participation. So that’s all I can say. I think the faster the better; we’d love to see it come sooner rather than later. We’d welcome nothing more than that. But, realistically, given the numbers, it’s going to take some time.

Sure. So we monitor a broad range of financial conditions, and we’re always attentive to market developments, of course. We’re still a long way from our goals, and it’s important that financial conditions do remain accommodative to support the achievement of those goals. And if you look at various indexes of financial conditions, what you’ll see is that they generally do show financial conditions overall to be highly accommodative. And that is appropriate. So that’s, that’s how we look at it. I would add, as I’ve said, I would be concerned by disorderly conditions in markets or by a persistent tightening of financial conditions that threaten the achievement of our goals. We think the stance of ourof monetary policy remains appropriate. Our guidance on the federal funds rate and on asset purchases is providing strong support for the economy. And we’re committed to maintaining that patiently accommodative stance until the job is well and truly done.

You know, wethe tools we have are the tools we have. What I’m telling you is that the stance of monetary policy we have today, we believe, is appropriate. We think that our asset purchases in their current formwhich is to say, you know, across the curve, $80 billion in Treasuries, $40 billion in mortgagebacked securities on netwe think that that’s, that’s the right place for our asset purchases. Now, we canwe can change them, of course, in, in a number of different dimensions should we deem that that’s appropriate. But, for now, we think that our policy stance on that is appropriate.

So, which measures. So we, we do monitor and communicate very regularly about different labor marketdisparities in the labor market, let’s say. So the African American unemployment rate is substantially elevated, and so is the Hispanic unemployment rate. So we look at those and we see those as, you knowit’s, it’s slack in the labor market. It’s, it’s sad to see, because those disparities had really come down to record lows since we started keeping the data that way. As recently as a year ago, February of last year, we had those, those disparities quite low. What happens in a downturn, though, is they move up at twice the speed of white unemployment. So we monitor those things. Weour tools, of course, affect unemployment generally, but we’re going to look at those as, as a form of slack in the labor market and hope that, you know, that there’s progress there. And, and this particular downturn, of course, was just a direct hit on, on a part of the economy that employs many minorities and lowerpaid workers. The publicfacing workers in the service industries in many cases don’t have a lot of financial assets, they’re not tremendously well paid, they might have other jobs, and things like that. So this was a direct hit on that part of the economy. And it’s the slowest part of the economy to recover. So, you know, we’d like to see those people continue to get supported, you know, as weas the broader economy recovers, which, which it’s very much doing now. In terms of disparate levels of vaccination, that’sthose are facts and unfortunate facts. They’re really not something we, we have within our policy toolkit to address. But it isit is true, though, that the data we have suggests that there arethere are significant disparities between different ethnic groups andyou know, but that’s, that’s not for us. That’s for fiscal authorities and the government more generally to, to work on.

So I do think that fiscal policy overall will have really helped us to avoid much of the scarring that we were very, very concerned about at the beginning. And I think that’s just the size and the speed with which Congress has deliveredyou know, with the CARES Act and since then, hasis going to wind up very much accelerating the return to full employment. It’s going to make a huge difference in people’s lives. And it has already. As I mentioned in my remarksopening remarks, the recovery has been faster than we expected. Part of that just is, it’s very hard to predict, given we’ve never seen an event like this. But part of it is just the strength of the fiscal response, which I think will, will look good over the years. Longer term, you know, to, to reallythat’sthe first part of it is about avoiding scarring, and I think we’ve not avoided all of the scarring, but we’ve probably avoided the worst cases there. And, and I hope we keep at it, and we will keep at it with our policies, of course, to do whatever we can to make sure that’sthat continues. Longer term though, what it takes to drive productive capacity per capita or per hour worked, to raise living standards over time, is investment: investment in people’s skills and aptitudes, investment in plant and equipment, investment in software. It takes a lot of investment to, to support a more productive economy and raise living standards. And that’syou know, that hasn’t been the principal focus with these measuresour measures, certainly. And we don’t have those tools. But what Congress has been doing has mainly been replacing lost income and beginning to, you know, support people as the economy returns to normal. But there should be a focus ona longerterm focus, I think, would be healthy on, on the investment front.

You’re right that the pace of the recovery is that we’re having diverging recoveries here, as we did after the last crisis. And in this case, as well as the other one, the U.S.’s recovery is, is leading the global recovery. And, you know, we conduct policy, of course, here. Our, our focus is onour, you knowour, our objectives are domestic ones. It’s, it’s maximum employment and price stability here in the United States. We monitor developments abroad, and we knowbecause they know we know that they canthose can affect our outcomes. So I think U.S. demandvery strong U.S. demand, if, ifas the economy improves is going to support global activity as well over time. That, that’ll be through imports. And, you know, when the U.S. economy is strong, that strength tends to betends to support global, global activity as well. So that’s one thing. I don’tI don’t worry in the near term. I mean, I’d love to see Europe growing faster. I’d love to see the vaccine rollout going more smoothly. But I don’t worry too much about us in the near term, because we’re, we’re on a very good track. Very strong fiscal support coming, now vaccination going quickly, and cases coming down. I think we’reI think we’re in a good place. It’s all ahead of us, but the data should, should get stronger fairly quickly here and remain strong for some time here.

So we haven’t made a decision on that. We’re a couple weeks away from announcing that decision. I, I won’t foreshadow it here today. I will say, we’re going to continue our datadriven approach. You know that we restricted buybacks and dividends, so the firms are preserving capital. Through 2020, the banks actually increased their level of capital and their level of reserves. And the December stress tests showed that banks are strong and well capitalized under our hypothetical recessions that wethat we used in December, which were quite stringent. We’re right in the middle of our 2021 stress tests, and we’ll release those results before the end of June. And that layers, you know, very significant additional stress on top of the stress the banks have already absorbed over the past year, with the unemployment rate going to 11 percent and stock prices falling more than 50 percent. Sobut all of that, you know, the results of the stress tests and the decision on distributionsall of that is to come fairly soon, as I mentioned.

Well, you know, it all depends. We’ve set out very clear criteria for liftoff, right, where we’ve said we want to see labor market conditions that are consistent with our estimates of, of maximum employment. And that doesn’t just mean unemployment, it means a much broader set of criteria. We want inflation at 2 percent, and not on a transitory basis. And we want inflation on track to be moderatelyto run moderately above 2 percent for some time. Those are the three conditions. Everybody on the Committee agrees to that, right? So it comes down to, what’s your projection for the economy? If you want toif you want toyou know, people will have a range of, of assessments for how good the economy is going to be. And, you know, we, we don’tI would say that we’re in a relatively highly uncertain situation. If you look at the uncertainty, people, people on the Committee broadly say that uncertainty about the forecast is, is very high compared to the normal level. We haven’t come out of a pandemic before. We haven’t had this kind of fiscal support before, totaling it all up. So you’re going to have different perspectives from Committee participants about how fast growth will be, how fast the labor market will heal, or how fastsorry, inflation will move up. And those things are going to dictate where people write down an estimate of liftoff. Of course, this isn’t a decision to lift off now. We’ll make that decision then. But it’s an estimate based onbased on assumptions about growth. And it’s, it’s meant to be a tool to generally show the public how, how our objective function works, how we think about the future. It isn’t meant to actually pin down a time when we might or might not lift off. Weyou know, we’re not going to make that decision for some time. The chances are that the economy in that time and place will be very different from the one we think it’ll be. So Isometimes with the dots, I have to be sure to point out that theythey’re not a Committee forecast. And you know this, but it’sthey’re not a Committee forecast. It’s just compiling these projections, really, of individual people. We think it serves a useful purpose. It’s not meant to, to actually be a promise or even a prediction of when the Committee will act. That will be very much dependent on economic outcomes, which are highly uncertain.

So, Brian, it’s not up to us to decide what, what Congress should spend money on or when. I was answering Jeanna’s question, which really was, how do we assure lack of damage toscarring, for example, or lack of damage to the productive capacity of the economy? And I think what’s happened so far has done a pretty good job of that. But, really, I wanted to make the longerrun point that ifto work on the productivityon productivity over longer periods, that isthat iscomes down to a number of things. But one of those things is investment: investment in people, in their skills, education, aptitude, all of those things. I’m not in any way suggesting that that’s something Congress should work on right now. Or that, you know, that’s just not mythat’s not our job. I’m just saying, that, that is what fiscal policy can do that, really, monetary policy can’t dois, is invest in the future productive capacity of the economy, raise potential growth. Those things are completely tools that Congress has. And, again, I wasn’t making a comment at all on the current fiscal setting.

Sure. So, as you know, financial stability for us is, is a framework. It’s not one thing. It’s not a particular market or a particular asset or anything like that. It’s a framework that we, we have. We report on it semiannually, the Board gets a report on it quarterly, and we monitor every day. And it hasit has four pillars, and those are four key vulnerabilities: asset valuations, debt owed by businesses and households, funding risk, and leverage among financial institutions. Those four things. And I’ll just quickly touch on them. So if you look at asset valuations, you can say that by some measures, some asset valuations are elevated compared to history. I think that’s clear. In terms of households and businesses, households entered the, the crisis in very good shape by historical standards. Leverage in the household sector had been just kind of gradually moving down and down and down since thesince the financial crisis. Now, there wasthere was some negative effects on that, people lost their jobs and that sort of thing, but they’ve also gotten a lot of support now. So the damage hasn’t been as, as bad as we thought. Businesses, by the same token, had a high debt load coming in. Andbutand many saw their revenues decline. But there’sthey’ve done so much financing, and there’s a lot of cash on their balance sheet. So nothing in those two sectors really jumps out as really troubling. Short termI mentioned funding risk as theas the last one. So we saw, again, in this crisis, breakdowns in parts of the shortterm funding marketscame under a tremendous amount of stress. And they’ve been quiet since the spring. And, you know, we shut down our facilities and all of that. But we, we don’twe don’t feel like we can let the moment pass without just saying again that wethat thosesome aspects of the shortterm funding markets and, more broadly, nonbank financial intermediation didn’t hold up so well under great stressunder tremendous stress. And we need to go back and look at that. So a very high priority for us as regulators and supervisors is going to be to go backand this, this will involve all the other regulatory agencies; it does involve all of them as welland see if we can strengthen those things. So that’s, that’s asort of a broader, detailed look.

Well, again, I wouldn’t read too much into, into the, the March 2021 SEP dot plot. Remember what it is: It’s a compilation of individual projections by individual members. They’re all making different assessments. They, they have different forecasts, economic forecasts. Some have more optimistic ones, some less optimistic. And they’realso remember that the SEP doesn’t actually include all the things that go into maximum employment. Right? It’s, it’s onlyit only includes unemployment. So I, I would just say, we’ve set out clear guidance. Thethe message from the SEP that I would like to leave with people is, we set out clear guidance. I mentioned what it was. It’s inflation up tono, sorry, it’s, it’s labor market conditions consistent with our estimates of maximum employmentand that’s not just unemployment, it’s all the other indicators, but, overall, totaling up to maximum employment; it’s inflation at 2 percent, and not on a transient basis; and inflation on track to exceed 2 percent formoderately for some time. Those are the criteria. We’re committed to robustly implementing that guidance. And that’s what thisthat’s what this says. That’s really all it says. We’re going to wait until those requirements are met. And, again, you know, the, the state of the economy in two or three years is highly uncertain. And I wouldn’t want to focus too much on the exact timing of a potential rate increase that far into the future.

So what I would say is, we’re committed to giving the economy the support that it needs to return as quickly as possible to a state of maximum employment and price stability. And, you know, to the extent having rates low and support for monetary policy broadly, to the extent that raises other questions, we think it’s absolutely essential to maintain the strength and stability of theof the broader financial system and to carefully monitor financial stability questions if that’s what you’re getting at. You know, we, we do that. We willwe monitor them very carefully. I, I would point out that, over the long expansionthe longest in U.S. history, 10 years and 8 monthsrates were very low forthey were at zero for, you know, 7 years and thenand then never got above, you know, 2.4 percent, roughly. During that, we didn’t see, actually, excess buildup of debt. We didn’t see asset prices form into bubbles that would threaten the progress of the economy. We didn’t see the things youwe didn’t see a housing bubble. You know, the things that have tended to really hurt an economy and have in recent history hurt the U.S., we didn’t see them build up despite very low rates. Part of that just is that you’re in a low rate environment, you’re in a much lower rate environment, and the connection between low rates and the kind of financial instability issues is just not as tight as people think it is. That’s not to say we ignore it. We don’t ignore it. We, we watch it very carefully. And we don’t thinkwe think there is a connection. We say there is, but it’s not quite so clear. We actually monitor financial conditions very, very broadly and carefully. And we didn’t do that before the Global Financial Crisis 12 years ago. Now we do. And we’ve also, you know, put a lot of time and effort into strengthening the large financial institutions that form the core of our financial systemare much stronger, much more resilient. That’s true of the banks. I think it’s true of the CCPs. We want it to be true of, of other nonbank financial intermediation, markets, and, and institutions. So I think that’s, that’syou know, monetary policy should be, to me, for, for achieving our macroeconomic aims. Financial regulatory policy and supervision should be for strengthening the financial system so that it is strong and robust and can withstand the kinds of things that it couldn’t, franklyand we learned that in 2008, ’09, ’10. This time around, the regulated part of the financial system held up very well. We, we found some other areas that need strengthening, and that’s what we’re working on now.

I’m sorry, could you repeat that? You broke up there for a second.

Yes, yes.

You’re asking about the relationship between unemployment and inflation? Is thatis that the question?

Okay.

Yes, I think I’m hearing you correctly. So I would say a couple things. There was a time when there was a tight connection between unemployment and inflation. That time is long gone. We had extremely low unemployment in, innot extremely low. We had low unemployment in 2018 and ’19 and the beginning of ’20 without having troubling inflation at all. We were at 3.5 percent. We were bouncing around with unemployment 3.5 percent to 4 percent. And it wasn’t just unemployment. Participation was high, wages were moving up. It was a very healthy thing. And we didn’t see price inflation move up. There is a relationship between wage inflation and unemployment. But that has not what, what happens is that when wages move up because unemployment is low, companies have been absorbing that increase into their margins rather than raising prices. And that seems to be a feature of latecycle behavior. So we’re, we’re notwhen, when wewhen we seek to achieve low unemployment, high levels of employment, which is our mandate, you know, we think we have the freedom to do that based on the data without worrying too much about inflation.

So we’ve said “substantial further progress.” Now, if you go back, October, Novembersorry, November, December, and January, progress in the labor market slowed very sharply. So you had an average of 29,000 jobs per month. If you go back and look at the, the level of job creation before that, it was very, very highvery high. So we weren’t making any progress on the labor market from November through January. February, we saw a nicea nice pickup, a good jobs report379,465 private sector. So that’s good. It can go so much higher, though. And, and, you know, it would be nice to seeto really make faster progress that’s different from substantial progress, we’d like to see it be, be higher than that. And I think it will be. That’sthe expectation is, you’ll see now, I think, really strong job creation returnnot as high as it was in the very early days of the recovery, the reopening of the economy, but, nonetheless, very strong. Okay. So what, what I’m saying is, to achieve substantial progress from where we are, having had three months of, of very little progress, is going to take some time. And it’swe don’t want to get intoI don’t want to get into trying to put a pin on the calendar someplace, because it’s going to be data dependent. When we seewhen we see ourselves on track to make substantial further progress, we’re going towe’re going to say so. We understand fully that that test is one that involves judgment. If you remember, during the Global Financial Crisis recovery, we said quantitative easing, number three, wasthe test was a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market. Well, what does that mean? Well, it means a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market. It meant we would communicate when we thought we had that. This is just like that, in a way. What we’re saying is, substantial further progress toward our goals. We’ll tell people when we thinkuntil weuntil we sayuntil we give a signal, you can assume we’re not there yet. And as we approach it, well in advancewell in advancewe will give a signal that, yes, we’re on a path to, to possibly achieve that, to consider tapering. So that’s, that’s how we’re planning to handle it. It’s not different, really, from, from QE3. And I think we’ve learnedwhat we’ve learned from the experience of these last dozen years is to communicate very carefully, very clearly, well in advance, and then follow through with, with your communications. In this case, it’s, it’s an outcomebased set of guidance, as our rate guidance is, and it’s going to depend on the progress of the economy. That’s why it’s not appropriate to start pointing at dates yet.

We, you know, we and everyone who’s forecasting thesewhat, what we’re all doing is, we are looking at theat the amount of savings. We’re looking atyou know, we have reasonably good data on that. And we’re looking at the government transfers that’ll be made as part of the various laws. And we’re trying to make an assessment on what will be the tendency of people to spend that money, the marginal propensity to consume. And from that, you can develop an estimate of the impact on spending, on growth, on hiring, and, ultimately, on inflation. So that’s, that’s what we’re all doing. And we have, you know, we havewe can look at history, and we can make estimates, and those are all very transparent and public. And you can compare one to the other. And, of course, we’ve allwe’ve all done that. And I think we’ve made very conservative assumptions and sensible mainstream assumptions at each step of that process. And what, what it comes down to is what I said before, which is, there very likely will be a stepup in inflation as March and April of last year drop out of the 12month window, because they were very low inflation numbers. That’s athat’ll be a fairly significant pop in inflation. It’ll wear off quickly, though, because itjust the way the numbers are calculated. Past that, as the economy reopens, people will start spending more, and then, you know, you can only go out to dinner once per night, but a lot of people can go out to dinner. And so and they’re not doing that now. They’re not going to restaurants, not going to theaters. That part of the economyand travel and hotelsthat part of the economy is, is really not functioning at, at full capacity, right? But as that happens, people can start to spend. It’s alsowouldn’t be surprising ifand you’re seeing this now, particularly in the goods economythere’ll be bottlenecks. They won’t bethey won’t be able to service all of the demand maybe, maybe for a period. So those things could lead toand we’ve, we’ve modeled that. Other people have too. We’veand what we see is relatively modest increases in inflation. Sobut those are not permanent things. You know, what’ll, what’ll happen isthe supply sidethe supply side in the United States is very dynamic. People start businesses, they, they reopen restaurants, you know, the airlines are, will be flying again, all of those things will happen. And so it’ll turn out to be a onea onetime sort of bulge in, in prices, but it won’t change inflation going forward, because inflation expectations are strongly anchored around 2 percent. We know that inflation dynamics do evolve over time. And there was a time when, when inflation went up, it would stay up. And, and that time is not now. That hasn’t been the case for some decades. And we think it won’tit won’twe won’t suddenly change to another regime. These things tend to change over time. And they tend totend to change when the central bank doesn’t understand that having inflation expectations anchored at 2 percent is the key to it all. The, thehaving them anchored at 2 percent is what gives us the ability to push hard when the economy’s really weak. If we saw inflation expectations moving materially above 2 percent, of course, we would conduct policy in a way that would, would make sure that that didn’t happen. We’re committed to having inflation expectations anchored at 2 percent, not materially above or below 2 percent. So that’sI think if youif you look at the savings, look at all of that, model it, that’s, that’s kind of what comes out of our assessment. There are different possibilities. I think it’s, it’s a relatively unusualvery unusual situation to have all these savings and this, this amount of fiscal support and monetary policy support. Nonetheless, that, that is our most likely case. And you know, as theas the data come in and the economy performs, we’ll of course adjust. Our outcomebased guidance will immediately adapt, we think, to meet whatever the actual path of the economy is.

You know, I have to say, I think it’s impossible to say, frankly, with any confidence, but I, I would expect it’s very possiblelet’s put it that waythat you will see bottlenecks emerge and then clear over time. And you’ll probably see that over a period of time, because, you know, really, the, the strong data are ahead of us. You know, you’re, you’reright now the, the checks are going out just, just now. And that’ll, that’ll add to spending. COVID cases are coming down. Vaccination is moving, now, quickly. You know, the, the really strong economic data is coming. It should be coming, assuming we stay on this track. And that’s when you’ll really know where, where the bottlenecks are. But you can see, though, that they’re notthese are not permanent. It’s not like the supply side will be unable to adapt to these things. It willthe market will clear. It just may take some time. And, and some of the answer to that may be price. In many cases, it won’t be price. You’ll see that people are reluctant to raise prices. You know, it’s a little bit the story about, you know, the wagethe wage Phillips curve does show that as unemployment goes down, wages move up. But companies choose not to try to, to pass that, that price increase along to their customers. So you’ll see a lot of that here too, I think. Anyway, we’ll, we’ll see. But that’s, that’s my basic, basic sense. Thank you very much.