January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 1of28 Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference January29, 2020  CHAIR POWELL.  Good afternoon,everyone.  Thanks for being here. At today’s meeting, mycolleagues and I decided to leave our policy rate unchanged. As always, we base our decisions on our judgment of how bestto achieve the goals Congress hasgiven us:  maximum employment andprice stability.  We believemonetary policy is well positionedto serve the American people by supporting continued economic growth, a strong job market, anda return of inflation to our symmetric 2 percent goal. The expansion is in its 11th year, thelongest on record.  Growth in household spending moderated toward the end of last year,but with a healthyjob market, rising incomes,and upbeat consumer confidence, the fundamentals supporting household spending are solid. In contrast, business investment andexportsremain weak, and manufacturing output has declined over the past year.  Sluggishgrowthabroad and trade developments have been weighing on activity in these sectors.  However, some of the uncertainties around trade have diminished recently, and there are some signs that globalgrowthmay be stabilizing after declining since mid-2018.  Nonetheless, uncertainties about the outlook remain, including those posed by thenew coronavirus.  Overall, with monetary and financial conditionssupportive,we expect moderate economic growth tocontinue. The unemployment ratehas beennear half-century lows for well more than ayear, and the pace of job gainsremains solid.  Participation in the labor force by people in their prime working years, ages 25 to 54, is atits highest level in more than adecade. And wages have been rising, particularly for lower-paying jobs. People who live and work inmiddle-income communities and low-incomecommunities tell us that many whohave struggled to findwork are nowfinding new opportunities.  Employment gains havebeen broad based across all racial and January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 2of28 ethnic groups and alllevels of education.  These developments underscore for us the importanceof sustaining the expansionso that thestrong job market reaches more of those leftbehind. Inflation continues to run below our symmetric 2 percent objective. Over the 12 months through November, total PCE inflation was 1.5 percent, and core inflation,which excludes volatile foodand energy prices,was 1.6 percent.  Available data suggest similarinflation readings for December, thoughwe expectinflation to move closer to 2 percent over thenext fewmonths as unusually low readingsfrom early2019 drop out of the calculation.  While low and stable inflation is certainly a good thing, inflation that runs persistently below our objective can lead longer-term inflation expectations to drift down, pulling actual inflation even lower.  In turn, interest rates would be lower as well—closerto their effective lower bound.  As a result, we would haveless room to reduce interest rates to support the economyin a future downturn to the detriment of American families and businesses.  We have seen this dynamic playout inother economies around the world, and we are determined to avoid it here in the United States. In particular, we believe the currentstance of monetary policyisappropriate to supportsustainedeconomicgrowth,astronglabormarket,andinflationreturningtoour2percent—symmetric 2 percent objective.  As long as incoming information aboutthe economy remainsbroadlyconsistentwiththisoutlook,thecurrentstanceofmonetarypolicylikelywillremainappropriate.  We will be monitoring the effects of the policy actionswe took lastyear, along withotherinformationbearingontheoutlook,asweassesstheappropriatepathofthetargetrangeforthe federal fundsrate.  Of course, if developments emerge that cause a material reassessment of ouroutlook,wewouldrespondaccordingly.Policyisnotonapresetcourse.I will concludewith a brief overview of our current plans for our technical operations toimplementmonetarypolicy.TheplantheFOMCannouncedbackinOctobertopurchaseJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 3of28 Treasurybills and conductrepo operations has proceeded smoothly and has succeeded in providing anample supply of reserves to the banking system and effectively controlling the federal funds rate.  In light of the resulting stability in the federal funds rate and money marketconditions more generally, we decided to make asmall technicalupwardadjustmentto administered rates to ensure that the federal funds rate trades well within the target range.  This action reverses the small downward adjustment made in September when money markets were volatile. As our bill purchasescontinue to build reserves toward levels that maintain ample conditions, the role played by active repo operations will naturally recede.  Over the first half of this year, weintend to adjust the size and pricing of repo operations as we transitionaway from their active use in supplying reserves.  This process will take place gradually, and, as indicated in today’s FOMC directive to theDesk, we expect to continue offering repos at least through April to ensure a consistently ample supply of reserves.  Based on current projections, we expect that the underlying level of reserves will durably reach ample levels sometime in the second quarterofthisyear.Aswegetclosetothatpoint,weintendtoslowthepaceofpurchasesandtransitionto a program of smaller reserve management purchases that maintains an ample level of reserves withouttheactiveuseofrepos.Atthatpoint,asinthepre-crisisperiod,ourbalancesheetwillbe expandinggradually over time, reflecting the trend growth in the demand forcurrency and otherFederalReserveliabilities.Allofthese technical measures are designed to support the efficient and effective implementationofmonetarypolicyandarenotintendedtorepresentachance—achangeinthestance of monetary policy.  We are committed to completing the transition to our longer-run ample-reservesregimesmoothlyandpredictably.Ofcourse,wewillcontinuetocloselymonitorJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 4of28 conditions in money markets,and we will adjust these plans as conditions warrant.  Thank you, and I’llbe happy to take your questions. CHRISTOPHER CONDON.  Thank you. Chris Condon,Bloomberg News.  Mr. Chairman, I would likeyou to comment in a little bit more depth about one small change I’venoted in the statement.  It notes thatpolicy will be appropriate to bring—theCommittee believes—inflation back to the Committee’s 2 percent symmetric inflation objective.  That’sa slight change from the last time, when you were expecting it to bring inflation outcomes back near the objective. And I would put this also in the contextof a comment you made at thelastpress conference where you drew attention to the fact that a number of policymakers had projected inflationovershoots two or three years out under appropriate monetary policy. Should we take all of this together to mean simply thatthe Committee is more confident that a 2 percentoutcomefor inflation is already baked in the cake, orthat this isa signal thatthe Committee has a stronger resolution to bring inflation at least to the 2 percent objective and put—bring intoplay an informal makeup strategy for inflation? CHAIRPOWELL.Yes.So,inmakingthatchange,ourgoalwas,really—thatwas,changing “near” to “returning to”—was to avoid possible misinterpretation.  So youmay remember,intheDecemberminuteswenotedthatafewCommitteememberssuggestedthatthelanguage thatstated that monetarypolicy would support inflation near 2 percent couldbe misinterpretedassuggestingthatpolicymakerswerecomfortablewithinflationrunningbelowthat level. Sowethoughtaboutthatintheintermeetingperiodandconcludedthatitwouldbeappropriate to adjust that language to send a clearer signal that we’re not comfortable with inflationrisingpersistently—runningpersistentlybelowour2percentsymmetricobjective.So,January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 5of28 yes, there is something in that. It’s just that we wanted to underscore our commitment to 2 percent not being a ceilingto inflation running around—symmetrically around2 percent, and that we’re not satisfied with inflationrunning below 2 percent, particularly at a time such as now where we’re a long way into an expansion and a long wayinto a period of very low unemploymentwhen, in theory, inflation should be moving up. NICKTIMIRAOS.  Thank you. Nick Timiraos of the Wall Street Journal.  I want toask about the balance sheet. How many reserves are “ample”?  How many reserves does the Fed nowthink itwill need to conduct policy inits current framework?  And can youwalk me through howyou and your colleaguesare arriving at that answer? CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So, thanks for that question.  Why don’t Isay a few things about repos, sinceI know that’ll be of interest.  So, just to bring you back, afterlast September’s brief turmoil, we took prompt and decisive action, and a result—as a result, money markets have been operating smoothly since then.  Just to review, those two adjustments were Treasury bill purchases of atleast—of $60 billion—sorry—at least into the second quarter, and term and overnightrepoatleastthroughApril.AndIwillgettoyourspecificquestion.The purpose of the adjustments has been to assure that our policy is transmitted smoothly tothefederalfundsrate,whichrequireswell-functioningmoneymarkets.Itdoesn’tmeanwe’retrying to eliminate allvolatility in the repo markets.  We know thatsomevolatility is normal and expectedinwell-functioningmarkets.And,asImentioned,theseadjustmentshavebeensuccessful in supplying an ample quantity of reserves.  Money markets operated smoothly, includingrightthroughyear-end,andthefedfundsratehasremainedinourtargetrange.Soweknow—we willknow when these adjustments have run their coursewhen reserves are durably at January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 6of28 a levelthat enablesus to control thefederal funds rate using our administered rates, the interest onreserves and reverse repo, without the need for frequent use of open marketoperations. Based on current projections, we expect that the bill purchases will durably bring the underlying level of reserves to the ample level sometime inthe second quarter of thisyear.  And when we see that we’ve reached that level, we’ll begin to gradually reduce our asset purchases to the level of the underlying trend growth of demand for our liabilities.  As our billpurchases bring the underlying level of reserves up to anample level on a sustained basis, the necessary quantityof overnight and term repowill gradually decline.  We’ve already begun the gradual reduction in the quantity of repo, and we’ll continue to reduce those offering amounts gradually as conditions permit.  Atsomepoint,we’ll also raise the minimum bid rate.  Even after we reach an ample level of reserves, it’s possible that repo operations might play a role as a backstop and support effective control of the federalfunds rate.  And we’llcontinue todiscuss that issue and review it underour implementation framework.Coming to your question, in terms of the actually desired reservelevel, we know that reserveswillcontinuetomoveupanddownoverthecourseofthecalendaryearinawiderangedepending on volatilityin nonreserve liabilities, particularly the Treasury GeneralAccount, or TGA.Inparticular,reservelevelswillneedtobeatalevelhighenoughtoremainampleevenwhen theTGA peaks during the April tax season.  Effectively, what that means is that we need reservesatalltimestobenolowerthantheywereinearlySeptember—and,Iwouldsay,around$1½ trillion, subject to learning more. Reserves are going to move in a broad range, as I mentioned,andwewanttobeclear,thatwillbethebottomendoftherange.Wewant$1½ trillion or thereabouts to be thebottom end of the range.  So, most of thetime, reserves will bemovinginarangesubstantiallyhigherthanthatbutnotgoingbelow$1½trillion.January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 7of28 So it’s not an—it’s not something thatwe’re aiming at all thetime.  We know that reserveswillfluctuate andbe substantially higher thanthat most of the time.  We also want interest on excess reserves and the fed funds rate to be well within the FOMC’s target range.  Andwe think that’ll bethe case now that we made our technical adjustment. Last points—we’re committed to making this adjustment process a smooth one.  We’ll provide more details as we go, and we expect to learn as we go, as wealways have.  And we’re prepared to adjust the details of the plan as necessary to foster efficient and effective monetary policy implementation. STEVE LIESMAN.  Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Mr. Chairman, thank you for the question.  Following upon Nick’s question, Iknow you saidit’s not QE, but it’s $390 billion over five months,which is a lot toexpand the balance sheet. I guess I’d ask one moretime onNick’squestion—is there anumber that you have in mind? Secondly, a lot of people inthe market are sortofconcerned that it looks likeQE, and they’re trading that way. Are you concerned that the market is embracing this like aQE program,andthattheriseinthestockmarketislinkedtoit,andyoumaythenexperiencesomething of a “tapertantrum” the way Chairman Bernanke did when hetried to roll itoff? CHAIRPOWELL.SoI’lljust—I’llrepeatthat—wethinkthatthe—wethinkweneedtocontinue purchasesuntil the—until reserves are at a levelat which theywill not go below $1½trillion,roughly,duringthecourseofthecalendaryear.AndweknowthattheTGAwillmove up and down there.  So they’ll be much higher thanthat some of the time, but that’s kind ofthenumber,andwethinkwe’llreachthatsometimeinthesecondquarter.That’sourestimate.  But we will—we’ll knowit when we get there.  We’ll know it becausewe’ll be able toJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 8of28 be—to control thefederal funds rate without use of—without active use, ongoing use of open market operations. Youknow,our intention of these—for these adjustmentsisjust to raise the level of reservesand toallow us toconduct monetary policy in an efficient and effective manner.  And that’s—that isour sole intention.  I pointed out on other occasions, more than once, the differences—the really specific differences between this and the large-scale asset purchase programs.  We’ve been over that. In terms of what affects markets, you know, I think many things affect markets.  It’s very hard to say with any precision at any timewhat is affecting markets.  What I can tell you is that you know what our intentionis.  Itis to return reserves to an ample level.  We expect thatto happen during the second quarter.  And our plan as we do that is, as those purchases get to that level,we believe we can gradually reduce them, and we believe we can also gradually reduce repo as—as we reach an ample level, as we’re satisfying demand now more from underlying reservesfrom bill purchases rather than from repo. And,again,thelastthingI’llsayis,we’repreparedtoadjustthedetailsofthisplanaswe’ve shown ourselves willing to do depending on conditions. JEANNASMIALEK.Hi,ChairPowell.JeannaSmialekfromtheNewYorkTimes.Iwas hoping that you could talk a littlebit about the labormarket.  We’ve recently seen wages moderatingalittlebitbysomemeasures,maybeevendecliningalittlebitbyothers.Asyoumentioned, at thelower end of the sort of talentpool, it seems likewe are seeing those wages climbupalittlebit,butitdoesn’tseemtobeconsistentacrosstheentiresortofaverage.Iwaswonderingif you’dtalk a little bit about whether you guys are noticing any cracks, or whether you’reworriedaboutthat,orhowyou’rethinkingaboutit.January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 9of28 CHAIR POWELL.  Thelabor market continues to—to perform well.  The labormarket continues to be strong.  We see strong job creation. We see low unemployment.  Very importantly, we see labor force participation continuing to moveup, really, againstexpectations.  If you go back a few years, you will not find a lot of forecasts suggesting that we could have been at 63.2 percent overall labor force participation orthe levels of employment to population that we’re seeing now, let alone the unemploymentlevel.  SoI think we’ve learned quite alot of goodthings about the labor market, good things suggesting that there’s been more room torun. The performance of wages, I think,has to be seen in that context.  We saw—if you go back four or five years, the four or five major wage statistics that we track were running at around 2 percent, and now they’re runningat around 3 percent, which is theoretically aboutwhere they might be at full employment.  It wouldconsist of inflation plus—plus productivity growth.  The—it’s a bit surprising that, with sustained levels of historicallylow unemployment, we haven’t seen wages moving up above that level as we have in other long expansions and other periods of lowunemployment. Soyouasked,whatcanbeexplainingthat?Youknow,onethingcanbethatthenaturalrate of unemployment is still lower thanwe think, that the labor market is not as tight as it would appearjustfromthe3½percentnumber.Andtheothercanbe,Ithink,that—asImentioned,thesort of supply-side shock or surprise that we’rereceiving fromhigher labor force participation.  Peoplearecomingintothelabormarketandprovidingmorelaborsupply,andthatis—that’sagreat thing. That’s a very healthy thing. We’rea countrythat has lowlabor force participation comparedtoessentiallyallofouradvanced-economypeers,andit’saverygood,positivething.Nonetheless, it represents more labor supply, and it may be holdingdown wages. January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page10 of 28 MICHAEL MCKEE. Michael McKee from Bloomberg Radio and Television.  In terms of the framework review and a little bit on Chris’s questionearlier, there is a general feeling now in the markets and among analysts that you’re basically setting us upfor some form of inflation-targetaveraging where you let the inflation rate run above the 2 percent target for some time to makeup for the time thatit has spent below that.  Is that a fair or reasonable assessment of where you think you’re goingto end up?  What would you, Chairman Powell, think of that idea personally?  And,as long asI’m asking, do you have anymore details on when wecanexpect the results of the review? CHAIR POWELL.  Thanks. I’ll just saythat we undertook the review because we felt, and I felt, that it was time to incorporate the realities of what we could call the “new normal” into our policy framework.  And some aspects of that newnormal would include ongoing powerful global disinflationary trends, which haveled to lower-than-target inflation many places in the world; secondly, a flat Phillips curve, by which I mean low levels of sensitivity of inflation toresource utilization—for example, low unemployment; and,thirdly, a much lower neutral realinterestratehereandaroundtheworld.Sothosearechallengingconditionsformonetarypolicyto deliver on ourstatutory goals of maximum employment and stable prices, although I would saythat,underourexistingframework,we’vebeenabletosucceedorgetclosetosucceedingitfor mostofthe time lately toachieve those goals, although we do struggle, as othercentral banks do,withtheinflationgoal.So this is about reviewing our strategy, tools, and communications to assure that they’re thebestthatwecandotoachievethosegoalsinthisenvironmentonasustainedbasis.Andwecontinued our discussions at this meeting.  I’m very, very pleased at the process so far.  It’s includedthe14FedListenseventsaroundthecountry,atwhichwe’veengagedwithafullrangeJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page11 of 28 of people andgroups across American society.  That was a very,very positive experience, and I think we learned alot.  We’ve now had a series of—a number of FOMC meetings at which we’ve reviewed what we’ve learned and also dug deeply into strategy, tools, and communications.  I expectthat we will conclude the review and announce our conclusions around the middle of the year.  Right now,we are just atthe point of coming together to put allthat together. So Ithink I’m not theperson who should betellingyou my personal preferences right now.  I’m trying to—and wewere trying to come together as a group around a set of answers.  I feel very positive about—thatwe’regoing tocome up with some good results, and I’m just goingto have to wait until we get to that point to announce them. DONNA BORAK.  Donna Borak with CNN. Going back toyour outlook for globalgrowth, we’ve seen some significant headwinds, as you mentioned earlier, with the easing—with the partial U.S.–China trade deal, but now that there’s some new concern following theoutbreak of the coronavirus—that it might shake global growth.  We’re already seeing reportsfrom Ford andToyotathatthey’replanningtoshutdowntheirassemblyplantsforanextraweek.Appleisrerouting their supply chains.  Starbucks is shutting down close tothousands of stores.  Are you worriedatallaboutwhattheimpactwouldbeontheU.S.economy,anddoyouseethatasasignificant risk—excuse me—to the outlook at this point? CHAIRPOWELL.Soletmetalkaboutthecoronavirusspecifically,andthenI’llturnmore to global growthmore generally.  First, it’s a—it’sa very serious issue, and I want tostart byacknowledgingthesignificantandconsiderablehumansufferingthatthevirusisalreadycausing.  There is likely to be some disruption to activity in China and possibly globally based on January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page12 of 28 the spread ofthe virus to date and the travel restrictions and business closures that have already been imposed. Of course, thesituation is really in itsearly stages, and it’s veryuncertain about how far itwill spread and what the macroeconomic effects will be in China and its immediate trading partners and neighbors and around the world.  So, in light of that uncertainty, I’m not going to speculate about it at this point.  I will justtell you that, of course, we are very carefully monitoring the situation. And, youknow,as you suggested, our framework ultimately is, what arethe potential ramifications for the U.S. economy andfor the achievement of our dual mandate?  More broadly, though, if I can talk about the global economy for a second—and if you look at the backdrop, you know, if you go back to 2017, that was the year of synchronized growth that lasted intothe middle of 2018,and then you saw slowing in growth, which lasted right through the end of last year.  The fourth-quarter growth globally was quite weak last year, and anumber of factorsplayed into that.  It wasn’t anyone factor.  There was trade policyuncertainty, absolutely, but alsotherewasthedecisionbytheChineseauthoritiestotrytoreininleverageandfinancialexcesses.  There was a turn—downturnin the global high-tech manufacturingcyclein global autoproduction.ThereweresomeidiosyncraticstrainsinsomecountrieslikeArgentina,Turkey.  Andthen, later, in HongKong and Chile, you had social unrest.  So, all of those thingswereplayingintothatcycleofweakeninggrowthoverthecourseof2019andthelasthalfof ’18. Iwouldsay,nowtherearegroundsforwhatIwouldcall“cautiousoptimism”abouttheoutlook now for theglobal economy. Many analysts are predicting a pickup in growth this year, althoughstilltorelativelymodestgrowthrates.AndIwould—peoplearepointingto,andweJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page13 of 28 would point to, supportive financial conditions, theeasing of trade tensions, the lowerodds of a hard Brexit.  The high-tech manufacturing industry does appear to be rebounding well in Asia, including in China.  The latest indicators—manufacturing PMIs,for example—suggest that manufacturing mayhave bottomed out, that they’re still below 50 in many jurisdictions, but they have moved up offof their lows.I would—I would just say, none of this is assured.  As Imentioned, we saw the fourth quarter of last year came in quite weak—weaker than expected.  We are not at all assured of a global rebound, but there are signs andreasons toexpect it.  And then comes the coronavirus, which, again,it’s too early to saywhat the effects will be. Of course, we’re, as I mentioned, monitoring it carefully.  There will clearly be implications, at least in the near term,for Chinese outputand, Iwould guess, for some of their close-in neighbors, and we’ll just have to see what the effect is globally.BRENDAN GREELEY.  Brendan Greeleywith the Financial Times. As recently as 2018, interest on excess reserveswasat the top of the band, sort of dragging the fed fundsrate up.Overthecourseoftheadjustmentssincelastyear,it’smovedsteadilydown,closertothebottom of the band.  So,if you’re moving itback up, howhigh doyou want to get it?  Are we lookingtogetinterestonexcessreservesatthetopofthebandagainasthefedfundsratemovesto the middleofthe band?  And should we see movements inIOER as an indicator that we’re approaching“ample”?CHAIR POWELL.  So our stated goalisto keepIOER and the federal funds ratewell withintherange.That’sit.Wellwithintherange.Andthat,clearly,youknow—5basispointsfrom the bottom or from the top isn’t that.  Sothat’s whywe moved back up.  You’reright. Last yearwewere—wesawsometightnessasreservesweredrainingoutofthesystem.WesawJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page14 of 28 the—graduallymoving up. And, in hindsight, we know what was happening.  With ample reserves, we see—we seethat it’spossible to bring the interest on reserves rate upto 10 basis points.  So now we’re—now we arewell within the range, I would say. BRENDAN GREELEY.  We are.  So you don’t think that, asthe fed funds goes back up towards the center of the range, thatIOER is going to end upat the top? CHAIR POWELL.  Don’t know that.  We want it to be well within the range.  I think we’ll continue to adjust it to the extent it’s appropriate.  Ultimately, what we’re trying todo is deliver a federal funds rate that’s well within the range.  IOER is justa tool to do that.  If we—ifwe need to make changes to keep it well within therange, we’ll dothat. It just means—I mean, the thing thatmatters for theeconomy is that we keep the federal funds rate—which isthe rate that, of course, transmits into other money market rates,which ultimately transmit into all kindsof financial conditions—that’s what we care about.  So, ultimately, wewill—we will use that toolto keep it well within the range. HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Thank you.  Howard Schneiderwith Reuters.  Just to sort of closetheloopononething,wheredodiscussionsstandonastandingrepofacility?Becausewhat you’ve said so far sort of impliesthat therewon’t be one or that it will be alimitedone.  So ifyoucouldjust,youknow,letusknowwherethatdiscussionstands.Andalso—UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER.  Can youturn mic over?  Turn themic over. HOWARDSCHNEIDER.Sorryaboutthat.Sorryaboutthat.Didyougetthequestion?Did you hear the question okay? CHAIRPOWELL.Idid.Idon’tthink—I’mnotsureyourcolleaguesdid.[Laughter]HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Where do the discussions stand on standingrepo? [Aside] Thatwasgreat.January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page15 of 28 Andthe other thing is, on the, you know, on the standing repofacility and on the purchases—Treasury bill purchases, as youenter this new regime later in the second quarter or later in theyear, will that be preannounced by amounts? Will there bepresetamounts like you’re doing now,or will that just be something that people will haveto sort of intuit and figure outas you goalong? CHAIR POWELL.  So I’ll go in reverse order. Whenwe—when wemake decisions about the steps we’re going to be taking in that adjustment process that I described at some length, we’ll be making them as earlyas we can and as transparently as we can—and specifically.  But we’re not at that stage.  It’s January, and we’reseveral months away from—from that. In terms of the standing repo facility, as I mentioned in, I guess, in my answer to an earlierquestion, there may well be a role for repo in this system even after we’re at an ample-reserveslevel. Now, we haven’t decided what that role is, we have not decided—wehaven’t at all made a decision on astandingrepo facility.  We haven’t.  We’ve had a couple of discussions aboutit,asyouknow,backin,Iguess,JuneandOctober.Andthere’sarangeofviews.We’regoingto return, I would say,fairly soon to this question. AndIthinkitwaswisetowait,becausewe’restillgettingabettersenseofwhatthat—what that worldlooks like.  And, you know, it’s really going to be a question of, how useful will itbe?Whatwillbethecostsandbenefits?Andmythinkingis,wewillreturntothatfairlysoon, and I wouldn’tassume a decision one wayor theother. Really, we haven’t made one, becausewehaven’thadto.AndIthinkyou—whenyoudelay,yougetmoreinformationbywaiting.  It’sgood towait.  We don’t have any urgency inmaking that decision, becausewe’re stilltryingtofindthatsortofstableequilibriumwherewe’reinanample-reservesregime.January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page16 of 28 HEATHER LONG.  Heather Long from the Washington Post.  I’mwondering, do you think that there is a financial stability riskfrom climate change?  You’ve spoken several times that you think severe weather events are happening more often and that the Fed is monitoring what that could physically do to a bank or a financial institution, but that’s sort of one institution.  Do you thinkthere’s a systemwide risk that may—that coulddevelop from climatechange? CHAIR POWELL.  So that’s an interestingquestion—the question being, is there asystemwidefinancial stability risk?  I’d say,over—overthe longer term,it’s certainlypossible, and I would saythat sort of feeds into the way we’re thinking aboutclimate change asan institution. So, as I’ve mentioned, climate change is an important issue,a veryimportant issue,butit’s essentiallyassigned tomany other agencies in the federal government and state governments for leadership on that. And, importantly, society’s overall response to climate change needsto be decided by elected officialsand not by the Fed. Allofthat said, if you look at our mandate, we’ve got a monetary policy mandate and, more immediately perhaps, a supervisory mandate where we’re supervising financial markets, utilities,andfinancialinstitutions,banks.Andwehaven’t—weshareoverallresponsibilityforfinancial stability with a numberofagencies. And thatlatter part—I think the public has every righttoexpectandwillexpectthatwewillassurethatthefinancialsystemisresilientandrobustagainst the risks from climate change.Now,Ithinkthat’sgottoberight.Weareintheveryearlystages,asareothercentralbanks, in understanding just what that means.  Andthere’s quite alot of work going on around theworldatothercentralbanksandattheFed,too,tothinkthatthrough.ButIdothinkit’s—inthat sense, it has to be part of our role, and—but notthe overall response of society to climate change.That’snotus.January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page17 of 28 HEATHER LONG.  And if I could follow up, canyou clarify why the Fed hasn’t signedonto the Network for Greeningthe Financial System like 40 other central banks have? CHAIR POWELL.  So we’ve attended all of their meetings andtaken part in them, andwe’ve been looking at joining in one form or another and talking to them about that.  We probablywilldo thatat some point.  Sothat’s—that’s an ongoing question.  But we’re very much attending thosemeetings and taking part in them. EDWARD LAWRENCE.  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.  Edward Lawrence from Fox BusinessNetwork.  So therewas a signing of a ratified USMCA at the White House today. Mid-February, the phase-oneChina deal gets—goes into effect.  Have you seen business investment pick up at all? If not, what will it take to get that business investment going as this uncertainty is—is being cleared up? CHAIR POWELL.  Yes.  So I guess I’dstart by sayingthat the fact thatwe’ve reached a phase-one deal with Chinaand the fact that we’ve moved ahead closer to getting USM[C]A agreed—those are potentially positive things for the economywithout question.  Without question.Andfinancialmarkets—thereactionoffinancialmarketsisveryconsistentwiththatperception.  A sustained reduction in uncertainty over timeshould improve business sentiment, investment,whichwouldprovidesomeadditionalsupportfortheeconomy.It’s important, though, to bear in mind a couple of things.  First,trade policy uncertainty remainselevated.Businessescontinuetoidentifyitasanongoingrisk.Westillhavetwooreven three active trade discussions that are going on in the publicsquare right now.  So it hasn’t goneaway,andwe’vejustcomethrougharoundoftalkingtoourvastnetworkofcomments—sorry, contacts in the business world. And I think,clearly, these areseen as positive developmentsgoingforward,butthere’sabitofawait-and-seeattitude—isthisgoingtobeJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page18 of 28 sustained?  The agreements have to be implemented, too, and that’ll take quite some time.  So, I would say, we need tobe a little bit patient about the effect onthe economy.There’s also the global economy.  You could—you could well see manufacturing—as I mentioned, manufacturing PMIs have started to tickup consistently among both advanced economies and emerging market economies. We do not see a decisive recovery, but it’s possible that thismixofpositive developments andalso accommodativefinancial conditions could spur further growth. MICHAEL DERBY. Hi, MikeDerby with Dow Jones.  Do youhave any greater sense of what—what was going wrong with the repo market starting in September?  There seemed to be, you know—whether it was a one-off event, you know, too tight around tax payments and debt settlement, or whether there’s a more enduring issue goingon withthe market, more structural forces that are basically gumming up the repo sector. CHAIR POWELL.  Yes.  As for those forces, so, as we indicated,we would undertake a, you know, serious review of that question andlook atboth our regulations and also supervisory practices.Andwe’dbepreparedtoadjustthoseinwaysthatmightencourageliquiditytoflowmore easilyin the systemas long as it didn’t undermine safety and soundness. And so we’ve undertakenthat,andwe’vedoneatonofwork,actually.Wedon’thaveanythingtoannouncehere today, but I feel good about the—whatwe’ve learned there. I think—you mentioned other factors.Wewillbeannouncingourfindings.I’mnotgoingtogiveyouatime,butwe’re—we’rewell along in that assessment at this time. Ithinkwealsofoundout,though,thatthelevelofreservesthatweneedinthesystemtoconduct our operations without frequent resort to openmarket operations was higher than we had thoughtandwashigherthanothershadthought,too.Welearnedthatwecan’tletreserves—weJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page19 of 28 shouldn’t let reserves go below $1½ trillion—roughly, the level of early September—at any point. And thatmeansthat reserveswill move through in a range over the course of the year that willbe substantially higher than $1½ [trillion],but they won’t ever go below. So $1½ [trillion] is nota target level.  It is the bottom of a range inwhich reserves will be expected to move. CHRISTOPHER RUGABER. Hi, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to ask about how your balance sheetoperations and repo—temporary repos—how theyaffect the system and who they’re helping.  Clearly, they’re mostly designed, as you said,to get—keep the fed funds rate in the range you’re looking for. But, certainly,the repo marketisalso used heavily by hedge funds and other Wall Street institutions.  And so,how wouldyou explain to, sort of, Main Street why you’re doing all this for that market? And how would you address criticism that it is helping mostly Wall Street, along with everything else? Thankyou.CHAIR POWELL.  Well, let me just stress that we have a very specific and important reason for caring about money market operations generally, and that just is that we are—our monetary policy decisions are transmittedthroughthe financial markets—through the money marketsintootherfinancialmarketsandintobroaderfinancialconditions.Sowecarethatmoneymarkets are operating smoothly.  And they stopped operatingsmoothly, briefly, back in September.Andsoweacted.Thisisaone-timethingthatwe’redoingtoadjustthelevelofreservesso that the money markets will be able to operate smoothly on an ongoing basis. Repomarketsareimportant,becausethat’swhereTreasurysecurities—thepurchaseofTreasury securities, which is the way—you know, the federal—part of the way the federal governmentisfundingitsoperations.It’sthewaythosearefinanced.SothesearelargelyTreasury securities that have been purchased by dealers to—for distribution to—and buyers, to a substantialextent.That’swhat’sgoingonintheTreasuryrepomarket.Soit’sjustthefinancingJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page20 of 28 for—for that.  Now, again, we don’t—that activity is a—is a market activity.  We’re notlooking to eliminate volatility or protect anybody from volatility at all.  What we care about is that volatility in the repo market can affect the transmission of—of our policy decisions to federal funds rate, and that really is important for the public. NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER. Nancy Marshall-Genzer with Marketplace.  Chair Powell, is the Fed going tovote tomorrow on changes to the Volcker rule restrictions onbanks investing in venture capital funds?  Whatcanyou tellus about what theFed is considering? And whymake those changes? CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So we will be looking tomorrow and voting on a—a new part of—part of the existing Volcker rule, and that is thecovered fund provisions of the rule. And we’ll be making a bunch of proposed revisions that we believe are faithful to both theletter andthe spirit of the law. We’re goingto put those proposals out for public discussion, and we’re goingto listen carefully, as we always do,to public comments on those proposals.  Again,we believe thatthey will be—and you’ll see them tomorrow—will be public—you know, will be publicly—wehaveaBoardmeetingtomorrowtodothat.NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER. Now, is this justthe venturecapital funds, orare also youchangingtherulesforhedgefundsandprivateequityfunds?CHAIR POWELL.  It’s coveredfunds.  It’s—soit’s that covered—so it’s not the proprietarytradingpartofVolcker.It’sthecoveredfundspart.NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER. And is there a chance that banks could take this and runandmaybeevengetinvolvedinmortgage-backedsecuritiesagainandriskyinvestments?CHAIR POWELL.  You know, we’ll—we think that what we’re doing is—is veryconsistentwithsafetyandsoundnessandabsolutelyconsistentwiththeletterandspiritoftheJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page21 of 28 Volcker rule.  We’ll be—we’ll be getting comments from people, and we’ll be looking into that question, among manyothers. GREG ROBB.  Thankyou. Thank you, Chairman Powell.  I’d like to turn yourattention back toChina and the health of its financial sectorin particular. And I guess I’m basing my question on reading the transcripts from 2014 that came out earlier this month.  Just—in March of that year, there was concern about the Chinese economy, and oneofyour colleagueson theFOMC at thattime asked the staff abouthow the Chineseeconomy would hurt—hit the U.S.economy.  And the staffer said that there was a—what they wereworriedabout wasthat not only was the Chinese economy slowing down, butthere was the financial sector.  And the quote was:  “There’s a tremendous amount of dodgy loans in China.”  Now, I was wondering if you could give us an update on these problems in theChinese financial sector. And how do you think it might impact the economy, particularlynow thatthey’ve been hit by this unexpected shock? CHAIR POWELL.  Well, China has had a problem for some years, including from that period—2014 up until, I guess, ’17 or ’18, andI thought—which was essentially just a lot of debtforanemergingmarket.Foraneconomyatthe—atthestageofevolutionoftheChineseeconomy, they had very highlevels of debt—not sovereign debt the way we think of it, but more businessdebt—debtofstate-ownedenterprisesandalsojustprivatebusinesses.Anda couple of years ago the authorities decided to try to get that under control—to stopthegrowthandtocontrolit.Andthat—asImentioned,that’soneofthereasonswhyChinesegrowth slowed, and it’s oneofthe reasons why global growth slowed, because we felt that.  And they’veactuallystucktothatevenduringthisdifficultperiodwhentheywereexperiencing,youknow, strains from trade negotiations and that kind of thing.  Theauthorities have stuck tothat January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page22 of 28 and have, again, continued totryto do that,so—to try to control the growth of debt.  And that’s important thatthey do that. We don’t think that—that there’sany imminent riskthere, although you—as you point out, the coronavirus thing is a significantthing, which will—will have some effects on the Chinese economy, atleast in the short term.  The Chinese economy is very important inthe global economy now. And, you know, we—whenChina’s economy slows down, we do feel that—not as much as countries, though, that are near China or that trade more actively with China,like some of the Western European countries.  We still have—you know, 85 percent of our economy is domestic. And we have a much smaller external sector, trade sector, than other economies just because of our physicallocation. BRIAN CHEUNG.  Hi.  Brian Cheung here, Yahoo Finance.  Sothe combination ofT-billpurchases and repo operations have been described colloquially as “liquidity.”  I’m just wonderingif you semanticallyagree withthat description—then, secondly, what the impact of that has been on risk assets.  I don’t know if that’s something that, you know, the Board or ReserveBanksareformallylookingintoorjustlookingatwhattheeffectofithasbeen.Howare you kindofthinking about that going forward? Thanks. CHAIRPOWELL.Well,so,twoquestions.Imean,intermsofliquidity,Ithinkwhatwe’redoing is whatI said: We’re trying to raise the level of reserves back up to a level so that bankscanmeettheirreserverequirements,andthatthere’senoughreservesinthesystemthatwedon’t see reserve scarcity, andwe don’t haveto use repo operations toprovide additional reserves.SoIthink,asImentioned,webelievewecangettothatstateatthecurrentpacesometime in the second quarter. January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page23 of 28 In terms of effects on risk assets, as I said earlier, it’s very hard to say what is affecting financial marketswith any precision or confidence at a given time.  It’s not our intention to change the stance of monetary policy.  These were designed to provide more reserves and, really, to do that in order toenable better transmission of our—of our rate decisions into the economy underour chosen framework.  That’s reallythe purpose of whatwe’re doing. JEANYUNG. Hi.  Jean Yung withMNI.  Iwanted to ask about the framework review again.  Woulda shift of focus to inflation over an average period—wouldthat call for a different policy stance if you made that shift?  And whether or not we know theanswerto that question, would the Fed consider changingthe stance of monetary policyfor that reason even if there was nochange to the economicoutlook? CHAIR POWELL.  Well, as youknow, we’re comfortable with our current policy stance.  We think it’s appropriate.  Wethink it’ll remain appropriate as long as data coming in are broadly in keeping with our outlook.  Over time—over time, though—let me take a step back.  Overtime, an average inflation-targeting framework would be different thanour current framework,inthesensethatitwouldn’tbea—therewouldbesomeaspectoftryingtomakeinflation average 2 percent overtime, which means, ifit runs below 2 percent for a time, it hasto runabovetobringtheaverageup.Sothatisadifferentframework.Our currentframework is one where we say—or we’d be equally concernedwith deviationsofinflationfromtargetoneitherside.Butthatisn’t—thatdoesn’tsuggestanintentionspecifically to have those deviations be symmetric.  In other words,that would—consistentwiththatwouldbehavingallthedeviationsbeononeside,whichiswhatwe’vehad,actually.  So I think it is a changein framework, and over time it would lead toa different January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page24 of 28 approach to policy.  Again, I’m not trying to—I don’t want to comment on the current stance of policy, which we do think is appropriate. DONLEE.  DonLee with the L.A. Times.  I wanted to askyou about the stock market.  By historical comparisons, as you know, valuations are considerably high. And I just wonder howmuch discussion and concern you and your colleagueshave about that and what risks you seefor the economy. CHAIR POWELL.  So we—welook at a very broad rangeof financial conditions where—thereisn’t any one financial condition that we—that we look at. And when we lookat financial conditions, whatmatters for the real economy is substantial changes in—or, material changes in financialconditions that are sustained over a period of time. If I can, maybe I’ll—maybe I’ll answer that in the context of our overall financial stability framework.  That’s one way to look at it.  So we look at—whenwe look at financial stability, we lookat—really, we’ve got four pillars to that, the first of which is leverage in the financial systemthat is at a comfortable level.  Our banks, particularly our largebanks, have highlevelsofcapital.The second is leverage in thenonfinancial sector, and that divides into households and businesses.Households’debttoGDPis—hasbeencomingdownsincethefinancialcrisis.It’snotmoving up.  It’s at low—low levels compared to what it was before the crisis.  So not every household—but,intheaggregate,householddebtisinagoodplace,averygoodplace.Businessdebt has beenmoving up.  We’ve been callingthat outfor more than a year—substantially more thanayear,andit’ssomethingwe’refocusedon.Andwe’vetakenappropriatemeasuresandaremonitoring carefully.  But we think it’s not something that would threaten financial stability,but morebeanamplifier.January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page25 of 28 The other one is asset purchases, getting to your—sorry, asset prices, getting to your question.  We do see asset valuations as being somewhat elevated—I do—somewhat elevated.  If you look at risk spreads, they’re narrow.  Ifyou look at P/Es, they’re high.  Ithink the way tothink about—a good way—one way to think about equity prices, though, is, what’s the premium you’re getting paid toown equities rather than risk-freedebt?  And that’s also at fairly low levels, but notextremely low levels. So valuations are high, but not atextremes. The finalfactor is funding risk.  Are big financial institutions and other players inthe financial systemfunded with stable funding, or is there alot of run risk?  And the answer is, very stable funding, forthe most part.  Soif you lookat, overall—what you see, in my view,is, vulnerabilities to the financial—to financial stability are moderate overall. KATY O’DONNELL.  Hi.  Katy O’Donnell, Politico. I wanted toknow,do yousupport Governor Brainard’s vision for the Community Reinvestment Act reform?  And is this something thatwe could see the Fedformally propose atsome point? CHAIR POWELL.  So let me say thatI think this is a good time to do—toupdateCRA, really,inawaythatisawin–winbothfortheintendedbeneficiaries—low-andmoderate-income communities—and also for banks that would like to havemore certainty about—about whatdoesanddoesn’tqualifyandthatsortofthing.Thelawcanbothbemoreeffectiveandmore efficientis—it comes down to.  And we think this is agood way.  It’s also just a good time totakeonboardthewaythedeliveryofbankingserviceshaschangedthroughtechnologyanddemographic change as well. Weworkedveryhardtotrytogetonthesamepagewiththeothertwoagencies.Wethink that aninteragency finalrule together wouldbe the best outcome.  We’re sorry we haven’t beenabletogetthere,andwestillholdoutsomehopethatwewillbeableto.WespentalotofJanuary 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page26 of 28 time on research and analysis and looking at meaningful reform. You saw Governor Brainard’s recent speech presenting some of the thinking and the analysis.  And we haven’t made any decisions about what we’regoing to do, about whetherwe’ll propose—I mean, our focus has been entirely ontrying to get to agreement with theOCC, really.  So we haven’tmade any decisions about what we’regoing to dogoing forward. In terms of, you know—Governor Brainard led our oversight committee over these activities for many years, andI asked herto take the lead on CRAmodernization, which is a high priority for us.  Iwas comfortable with herspeech, and I’m comfortable with the work we’ve done andwith the Fed’s position on this. As I said, we haven’t chosento bring aproposal forward.  We haven’t decided what to do, whether—going forward.  And we’renot going to commenton the other proposal.  It’s just not appropriate to do. It’snot about us.  It’s not about our views.  It’s about the views of the interested parties. HANNAH LANG.  Hannah Lang withAmerican Banker.  Thank you for being here today.  I wanted to ask about Vice Chair Quarles’s recent speech on banksupervision in which helaidoutsomesuggestionsformakingchangestothesupervisoryregime.Iwantedtoask,doyou agreewith his approach? And are there any plans to codify some of these suggestions later intheyear?CHAIR POWELL.  So I do agree that—the principles that he articulated of firm and fair supervisionandeffectivetransparencyincommunications.Ialsothinkit’sagoodthingthatwewould havebrighter lines to define our LISCC supervisory portfolio, which we haven’t reallyhadtodate.Rememberthatwhenafirmmovesfromoneportfoliotoanother,thatdoesn’tmeanthat its level of scrutiny or supervision willchange. January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page27 of 28 So—and I also thought that, youknow, the—he’s raising some very interesting questions about, if you—in the first partofthe speech, where he’s talking aboutregulation andsupervision and, you know, how to—how to balance the desire for transparency and due process in everythingthe government does with theneeds of confidentialsupervision.  It’s a very challenging question. It’s onethat could use further thought.  And as far as the specific, you know, proposals, there’s—you know, they’reinteresting,you know, andneed further development and will needlots of comment andthat sort of thing. MARK HAMRICK.  Thankyou. Here we go. Sorry, Ihad it [the microphone] upside down. That’s not too good. Mr. Chairman, Mark Hamrick with Bankrate.  Thank you. I wantedto ask youa question about the—one of the unintended consequences over theyears-long low interest rate environment, andthat is that savers haven’t gotten as much returnas would have otherwise been the case.  What would you say to those individuals who’ve seen the Fed again cutting rates, eroding their ability to get a higher return on their savings?  And how much would you take their plightintoconsideration?Howmuchcanyousympathizewiththem?CHAIR POWELL.  Sure.  So we—we are assigned a job by Congress, and that is to use ourtoolstopursuemaximumemploymentandstableprices.Andthat’swhat—that’sourfocus.Now, monetary policy is a blunt instrument, but it’s a powerfulone.  So I think if youlook—lookatthetimesincethefinancialcrisis.Thatwas—intheweek[wake]offairlymodestgrowth, it was a powerful recoveryin the labor market.  And part of that just is the effect of lowerinterestrates.So,if—somany,manypeoplebenefitfromlowinterestrates.Infact,youdon’t hear—when you talk to the low- and moderate-income communities, one thing youdon’t January 29, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page28 of 28 hear is, “You ought to raiserates.” That’s not what youhear.  You hear quite the opposite, which is, youknow,“Please do whatever you canto keep this expansion going.” I absolutely sympathize with people.  If you’re living on just theinterest in a bank or onfixed-income generally, then that’sa challengingthing. Onthe other hand, if you owna home, home values—the housing market has recovered, other financial assets have recovered, so—but,yes, forsomepeoplewho arelimitedto those sources pluswhatever other help they get,it can bechallenging.  I mean, we have todo what’s best forthe—forthe overall society and the economy.  That’s—those are ourorders from Congress.  Thanks very much. 