Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dual mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. The economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward our goals over the past two years. The labor market has cooled from its formerly overheated state and remains solid. Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7 percent to 2.1 percent as of September. We are committed to maintaining our economy’s strength by supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to our 2 percent goal. Today, the FOMC decided to take another step in reducing the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. We continue to be confident that, with an appropriate recalibration of our policy stance, strength in the economy and the labor market can be maintained, with inflation moving sustainably down to 2 percent. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace. GDP rose at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the third quarter, about the same pace as in the second quarter. Growth of consumer spending has remained resilient, and investment in equipment and intangibles has strengthened. In contrast, activity in the housing sector has been weak. Overall, improving supply conditions have supported the strong performance of the U.S. economy over the past year. In the labor market, conditions remain solid. Payroll job gains have slowed from earlier in the year, averaging 104,000 per month over the past three months. This figure would have been somewhat higher were it not for the effects of labor strikes and hurricanes on employment in October. Regarding the hurricanes, let me extend our sympathies to all the families, businesses, and communities who have been harm harmed by these devastating storms. The unemployment rate is notably higher than it was a year ago but has edged down over the past three months and remains low at 4.1 percent in October. Nominal wage growth has eased over the past year, and the jobs to workers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market are now less tight than just before the pandemic in 2019. The labor market is not a source of significant inflationary pressures. Inflation has eased significantly over the past two years. Total PCE prices rose 2.1 percent over the 12 months ending in September; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.7 percent. Overall, inflation has moved much closer to our 2 percent longer run goal, but core inflation remains somewhat elevated. Longer term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. We see the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals as being roughly in balance, and we’re attentive to the risks to both sides of our mandate. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, to 4½ percent to 4¾ percent. This further recalibration of our policy stance will help maintain the strength of the economy and the labor market and will continue to enable further progress on inflation as we move toward a more neutral stance over time. We know that reducing policy strain restraint too quickly could hinder progress on inflation. At the same time, reducing policy restraint too slowly could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We are not on any preset course. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. As the economy evolves, monetary policy will adjust in order to best promote our maximum employment and price stability goals. If the economy remains strong and inflation is not sustainably moving toward 2 percent, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can move more quickly. Policy is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer term inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our affect actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you. I look forward to our discussion.

Sure. So let me say that in the near term, the election will have no effects on our policy decisions. As you know, many, many things affect the economy, and anyone who writes down forecasts in their job will tell you that the economy is quite difficult to forecast, looking out past the very near term. Here, we don’t know what the timing and substance of any policy changes will be. We therefore don’t know what the effects on the economy would be specifically, whether and to what extent those policies would matter for the achievement of our goal variables: maximum employment and price stability. We don’t we don’t guess, we don’t speculate, and we don’t assume. Now, just in principle, it’s possible that any Administration’s policies or, or policies put in place by Congress could have economic effects over time over time that would matter for our pursuit of our dual mandate goals. So, we along with countless other factors, forecasts of those economic effects would be included in our models of the economy and would be taken into account through that channel.

So I would just say this. We’ve watched the, the run up in bond rates, and it’s, it’s nowhere where it was, of course, a year ago. I guess that, you know, the long  run rates are well below that level. So we’re watching that. Things have been moving around, and we’ll see where they settle. I think it’s too early to really say where they settle. Ultimately, I’m sure we’ve all read these decompositions of what, you know and I certainly have, but it’s not really our job to provide our specific decomposition. I will say, though, that it appears that the moves are not, not principally about higher inflation expectations. They’re really about a sense of more likely to have stronger growth and perhaps less in the way of downside risks. So that’s what they’re about. You know, we do take financial conditions into account. If they if they’re persistent and if they’re material, then we’ll certainly take them into account in our policy. But I would say we’re not at we’re not at that stage right now. It’s just something that we’re watching. And, again, these things don’t really have mainly to do with, with Fed policy, but to do with other factors in the economy.

You know what? It’s you get halfway through the cycle between the last set and the next set. I, I wouldn’t want to comment one way or the other. You know, people are let’s talk about the data we’ve gotten since the last meeting. So, in the main, the economic activity data have been stronger than expected. The NIPA revision was stronger. Certainly, the September employment report was stronger; the October report, not stronger; retail sales, stronger. So, overall, though, I think you take away a sense of, of some of the downside risks to economic activity having, having been diminished, with the NIPA revisions in particular, and so, overall, feeling, feeling good about economic activity. So I think we would factor that in. At the same time, we got one inflation report, which was it wasn’t terrible, but it was  it was a little higher than expected. So I think, really, the question is, is December. And, you know, by December we’ll have we’ll have more data: I guess one more employment report, two more inflation reports, and lots of other data, and, you know, we’ll make a decision as we get to December.

You know, I can’t. We don’t fill out a we don’t fill out an SEP, and I can’t characterize one that wasn’t filled out today. So I can’t really speak for kind of exactly where the where the Committee is. I would just say, for December, we’re going to be again, in every meeting we’re going to be looking at the incoming data and how that affects the outlook. As you know, we’re in the process of recalibrating from a fairly restrictive level at 5.33 percent. After today’s move, we’re down 75 basis points. And we’re, we’re asking ourselves, “Is that where we need to be?” You know that we’re, we’re trying to steer between the risk of moving too quickly and perhaps undermining our progress on inflation or moving too slowly and allowing the labor market to weaken too much. We’re trying to, to be on a middle path where we can maintain the strength in the labor market while also enabling further progress on inflation. We think that’s where we are, but that’s the question we’re going to be asking in September and, and in other meetings. And, again, I can’t really update you on the Committee’s thinking, because we don’t fill out an SEP at this meeting.

Again, I’m going to wait we’re going to wait and see how things come in in December. I mean, I it’s just I would put it this way: We’re on a path to a more neutral stance. And, and that’s very much what we’re on. That has not changed at all since September. And, you know, we’re just going to have to see where the where the data lead us. We have, you know, a whole six weeks of data to look at to make that decision in December. Obviously, I’m not ruling it out or in, but, but, you know, I would say you know, I would say that, you know, again, we didn’t update the SEP, so I’m not going to characterize, you know, where the Committee would be.

Not really, no. So let me tell you what we were thinking. So the test of gaining further confidence was a was our test for the first rate cut, right? And so we, we met that test in September, and therefore we take that test out. If you leave it in, then it’s new forward guidance. It’s brand new forward guidance. “What do you mean by it? Are you are you making are you requiring yet further guidance?” We have to say “yes” or “no” at every meeting whether we’ve made further progress. The point is we have gained confidence that, that we’re on a sustainable path down to 2 percent. So that, I would tell you, is, is what that’s really all about. And it’s not meant to send a signal. Neither of those is meant to send a further signal. And, you know, saying “further progress” it becomes a test where we don’t want to be we don’t think it’s a good time to be doing a lot of, of forward guidance. You know, we’re there’s a fair amount of uncertainty in that in what I’ve said. The path that we’re on, we do know what where the destination is, but we don’t know the right pace, and we don’t know exactly where the destination is. So the the the point is to find that, to find the right pace and the right destination as we go. And I think there’s a fair amount of uncertainty about that, and, you know, you don’t want to tie yourself up with, with guidance. You want to be able to make sensible decisions as you go.

So we don’t comment on fiscal policy, and, again, I don’t have a lot more to say on, on what’s driving bond yields. In terms of, of policy changes, though, let me give you a sense of how this, this works in the ordinary case. Let’s say Congress is considering a rewrite of the tax laws; it doesn’t matter what’s in the content. So we would follow that. At a certain point, we’d, we’d think we see the outline, so we’d start to model it. And then we’d wait, and we’d wait, and, at a certain point, the staff would brief the FOMC and say, you know, “This is these are the likely effects.” There’s lots and lots of literature on the effects of tax policy changes on various parts of the economy. So we’d, we’d try to get smart on that. And then the law actually passes, and, you know, you’d start to put it you’d probably run an alternative simulation before that happens, just to keep people trying to understand it. Then, then when it actually passes, it goes into the model, along with a million other things. So, you know, these we have a very large economy. Many things are affecting it at any given time. And, you know, a law change of some kind would go in there, but it would go in, but it would you know, it’s a process that takes some time. Clearly, the legislative process takes a lot of time. And, of course, the real question is not the effect of that law. It’s all of the policy changes that are happening. What’s the net effect and, you know, the overall effect on the economy at any given time? So I think that’s a that’s a process that takes a lot of time and that we go through all the time with every Administration, constantly. And I just this will be no different. But, you know, right now, we’re there’s nothing to there’s nothing to model right now. It’s such an early stage. We don’t know what the policies are, and once we know what they are, we won’t we won’t have a sense of, you know, when they’ll be implemented or, or all those sorts of things. So I think I would just say 

 we’re not doing that now, and all that will take time, and it will be very much regular order when we do do that.

I look, I just think the first question is, how long will they be sustained? If you remember the 5 percent 10 year, people were drawing massively important conclusions only to find, you know, three weeks later that the 10 year was 50 basis points lower. So, you know, it’s material changes and financial conditions that last, that are persistent, that really matter. And we don’t know that about these. What we’ve seen so far? You know, we’re watching it. We’re reading. You know, we’re doing the decompositions and reading others, but right now it’s not a major factor in, in how we’re thinking about things.

So you’re right. As I mentioned, and as you mentioned, the latest economic data have been strong, and that’s, of course, a great thing and highly welcome. But, of course, our mandate is maximum for employment and price stability, and we think that even with today’s cut, policy is still restrictive. We understand it’s not possible to say precisely how restrictive, but we feel that it is still restrictive. And if you look at our goal variables, the labor market has cooled a great deal from its overheated state of two years ago and is now essentially in balance. It is continuing to cool, albeit at a at a modest rate, and we don’t need further cooling, we don’t think, to achieve our inflation mandate. So that’s the labor market. Inflation has moved down a great deal from its higher its highs of two years ago, and we judged, as I mentioned, that it’s on a sustainable path back to 2 percent. So the job’s not done on inflation. But if you look at those two things, we judged in September that it was appropriate to begin to recalibrate our policy stance to reflect this progress, and today’s decision is really another step in that process. Overall, as I mentioned, we believe that with an appropriate recalibration of our policy stance, we can maintain strength in the labor market even as our policy stance enables further progress toward our inflation goal.

So we haven’t, you know, made any decision like that at all. But we’re so we’re in the process, as I mentioned, of moving policy down our stance down over time to a more neutral level. And, as a general matter, as we move ahead, we are prepared to adjust our assessments of the appropriate pace and destination as the outlook evolves. So, for example, if we were to see the labor market deteriorating, we’d be prepared to move more quickly. Alternatively, as we approach levels that are plausibly neutral or close to neutral, it may turn out to be appropriate to slow the pace at which we’re dialing back restriction. Again, haven’t made any decisions about that, but that’s certainly a possibility. If you  you can think of it as similar to what we do with asset purchase with asset runoff with QT. So we reach a point where we slow the pace, much like an airplane reaching the airport slows down. And so, you know, it we’re thinking about it that way, but it’s, it’s something that we’re just beginning to think about.

Well, so I think if you look at the 3  and 6 month you’re quoting the 12 month.

So we look at all of them, right?

But if you look at three  and six month core PCE, you’ll see they’re around 2.3 percent. So we look at all of them. And we look at we also we look at 12 as well. But what it’s telling us is that we really have made significant progress. And we expect there to be bumps. For example, you know, the, the last three months of last year, the core PCE readings were very, very low probably unsustainably low. So that’s why you see that’s why forecasts generally see a couple of upticks toward the end of the year. On the other hand, the January reading certainly looks like an example of residual seasonality, so that we saw last year. So when that falls out of the 12 month calculation in February, we should see it staying down. So there will literally be a bump up and then down. We understand that. Overall, you see the progress on inflation, and you also look at the economy, and you say, “What’s what is the inflation story now? Where is it coming from?” So I point to a couple of things. One is the nonhousing services and goods, which together make up 80 percent of that  of the core PCE index, are back to the levels they were at the last time we had sustained 2 percent inflation, which happens to be in the early 2000s for a period of five, six, seven years. So they’re back at that level. What’s not is housing services. So let’s talk about housing services. Housing services is higher. What’s going on there is, you know, market rents, newly signed leases, are experiencing very low inflation. And what’s happening is older, you know, leases that are turning over are taking several years to catch up to where market, market leases are market rent leases are. So that’s just a catch up problem. It’s not really reflecting current inflationary pressures; it’s reflecting past inflationary pressures. So that’s, that’s one thing. The other thing is, I’d say look at the labor market not a source of inflationary pressures. Where is it coming from? It’s not a very tight economy. What is the story about inflation? You see that catch up inflation also in insurance and in several other areas. So you’re seeing we’re not, not declaring victory, obviously, but we feel like the story is very consistent with inflation continuing to come down on a bumpy path over the next couple of years and settling around 2 percent. That story is intact, and it won’t be one or two really good data months, or bad data months aren’t going to really change the pattern at this point, now that we’re this far into the process.

Nothing in the economic data suggests that the Committee has any need to be in a hurry to get there. We are seeing strong economic activity. We are seeing ongoing strength in the labor market; we’re watching that carefully, but we do see maintaining strength there. And so we think that the right way the right way to find neutral, if you will, is carefully, patiently. Again, that’s not meant to have a specific meaning other than we to the extent to the extent the economy remains strong, we have the ability to, to take advantage of that as we try to navigate that middle path between the two risks.

Sure. So on your first question, I’m not going to talk about anything that relates directly or indirectly to the election. On the second one, you’re you know, this is the great question, and it’s the one we think about all the time. So I’ll just say a couple things. You know, there’s nothing really surprising here. What we know is that the unemployment rate is low. We also know that it’s come down significantly sorry, moved up significantly from a year or so ago. So we’ve seen a big change upward in unemployment. Sometimes that has meant bad things. So far, it doesn’t appear to be. It appears that the I wouldn’t say that the labor market has fully stabilized, because I do think it’s continuing to very gradually cool, but it seems to be in a good place. And our policy, of course, is designed to keep it in that good place, to maintain the strength in the labor market, while also enabling further progress on inflation. You know, you mentioned a bunch of, of indicators, and you’re right. You know, the, the openings to unemployment rate is back to a normal level. I would I would characterize it more broadly as “normalizing.” You mentioned wages. Wages are still running just a bit above where they would need to be to be consistent with 2 percent inflation, unless productivity is going to remain at this high level. If we see the if we see productivity, you know, more sustainably at these high levels, then that would sustain higher wage gains. So I would say in fact, you can say it the other way, that, that wage increases are now consistent with 2 percent inflation given current productivity readings. But, of course, you know, the lore on productivity readings is whenever you see high readings, you should assume they’re going to revert pretty quickly to the longer term trend. That has always been the case for 50 years. But, you know, it may be that we’re now five years. If you look at the NIPA revisions that came out a month ago, we’re five years into, into a nice set of productivity readings, which are sustained and very healthy. But, overall, it’s a good labor market. We could talk about 20 different data series. We’ll be looking at all of them, of course. But, you know, we don’t want the labor market to, to soften much from here. We don’t think we need that to happen to get inflation back to 2 percent.

No.

No.

So it’s hard to characterize a, you know, really interesting set of discussions we had, and, of course, you’ll see them in the minutes in three weeks. But I would say this. I think, you know, the comments from our Reserve Bank colleagues and from the CEOs that they talk to are pretty constructive on the economy right now pretty constructive, feeling that the labor market is, is, you know, back to normal to the point where it’s no longer that much of a discussion topic in their world, whereas two years ago, it was all they were talking about. So they feel like the labor market’s in balance. People feel good about where the economy is. Demand is obviously pretty strong. And, you know, you’re seeing, what, 2.8 percent growth in the third quarter estimated. Maybe the year is 2½. This is this is you know, this is a strong economy. It’s actually remarkable how well the U.S. economy has been performing with, you know, strong growth, a strong labor market, inflation coming down. We’re, you know, really performing better than any of our global peers. And I think that is reflected in what you hear from what I hear people hear from CEOs. I don’t get to talk to a lot of CEOs in my job, but I hear what others summarize from those. And, of course, I hear the Reserve Bank presidents do a lot of that, and it’s pretty constructive overall. Now, that’s not to say there are areas of caution and things like that but, ultimately, overall pretty positive.

I think it’s you know, it’s things like clearly, geopolitical risks around the world are elevated, and just as clearly, they’ve had relatively little effect on the U.S. economy. Now, that can change through the price of oil or otherwise, but people talk about those as, you know, something that’s on the horizon all the time. But, you know, ultimately, if you look at the U.S. economy, its, its performance has been very good. And that’s, that’s what we hear from businesspeople, an expectation that that will continue. If anything, people feel next year I’ve heard this from several people that next year could even be stronger than this year.

So, you know, I have said many times no more, no less than what the predecessors you mentioned have said. And what that is is that the U.S. fiscal federal government’s fiscal path fiscal policy is on an unsustainable path. The level of our debt relative to the economy is not unsustainable. The path is unsustainable. And we see that. And, you know, you’ve got a very large deficit at you’re at full employment, and that’s expected to continue. So it’s important that we you know, that that be dealt with. It is ultimately a threat to the economy. Now, I can say that. I don’t have oversight. We don’t have oversight over fiscal policy. I’ve said it on many occasions just said it again.

Not permitted under the law.

Not permitted under the law.

No. I was not referring to, to the new Administration’s policies at all, nor will I today. So I what I’m just saying is, as we look ahead, we know and I mentioned this in my statement that the risks are two sided. I guess I should start by saying that we think that the economy and we think our policy are both in a very good place, a very good place. And but as you look forward, you say, “What are the risks?” And one risk is that we would move too quickly and find ourselves having moved too quickly, and inflation comes back, and we and we lost our chance to get inflation back to 2 percent. So we have to avoid that risk. And that, that to avoid that risk, that means you want to move carefully. The other risk is that we move too slowly and that we allow the labor market to weaken too much and do unnecessary damage to the labor market and to people’s working lives. That, that says, “Don’t get behind the curve.” So these are two these two things are the two risks that we have to manage. And so we’re, we’re in the middle there. We try to be in the middle and deal with both of the manage both of those. Again, the idea is to maintain support, the strength that we have in the labor market and in the economy, but also with somewhat less restrictive but still restrictive policy, enable further progress toward our 2 percent inflation goal. And so there’s you know, there  this is the thing: Meeting by meeting, we’re going to be making our assessment of what the right path is. You know, it’s not as important the precise timing of these things is not as important as the overall arc of them, and the arc of them is to move from where we are now to a sense of neutral, a more neutral policy. We don’t know exactly where that is; we only know it by its works. We’re pretty sure it’s below where we are now. But as we move further, there will be more uncertainty about where that is. And we’re going to move carefully as, as this goes on so that, you know, we can increase the chances that we will get it right.

So we, we would be concerned if we saw if we thought we saw longer term inflation expectations anchoring at a higher level. That’s not what we’re seeing. We’re still seeing between surveys and market readings broadly consistent with you know, I, I looked at the five year, five year earlier today, and it’s probably moved, but it’s just not it’s just it’s kind of right where it’s been, and also it’s pretty close to consistent with 2 percent PCE inflation. So that’s one that’s been a traditional one that we look at a lot. But, overall, expectations seem to be and really have throughout this in a place that’s consistent with 2 percent inflation. But you’re right to say we watch that very carefully, and we will not allow inflation expectations to drift upward. But that’s, that’s really why we reacted so sharply back in 2022 was, was to avoid that.

I’m not going I’m not going to get into the any of the political things here today, but thank you.

So that’s a you know, the whole plan is not to have stagflation, so we don’t have to deal with it. So that’s our that is actually our plan. [Laughter] You know, it’s, of course, a very difficult thing because you’re you know, you’re anything you do with interest rates will, will hurt one side or the other, either the inflation mandate or the or the employment mandate. I would just say that, you know, we’ve, we’ve been able to see inflation come down a whole lot, you know, much closer to our goal without the kind of sharp increase in unemployment that has often accompanied programs of disinflation. So knock on wood, we’ve gotten this far without seeing a real weakening in, in the labor market. And we believe we can complete the inflation task while also keeping the labor market strong, and that, of course, is exactly what we’re trying to do.

I no. I wouldn’t rule anything out or in that far away. But that’s certainly not, not our plan. I mean, our baseline expectation is that we’ll continue to move gradually down towards neutral, that the economy will continue to grow at a healthy clip, and that the labor market will remain strong. If you look at our look at our that will not change from the September SEP. You know, that is our baseline forecast. And, short of some exogenous event, it will that will continue to be our forecast for the foreseeable future. So  but, ultimately, you know, it’s we’re not in a we’re not in a world where we can afford to rule, rule things out a full year in advance. It’s there’s just too much uncertainty in what we do.

No. That’s, that’s not the way our framework works. We’re aiming for inflation at, at 2 percent. We’re we do not have we do not think it would be appropriate to deliberately undershoot. And, you know, part of the problem there is that low inflation can be a problem, too, in a way. But that’s not part of our framework, and it’s not something we’re going to be going to be looking at in our framework review. Thank you very much.