March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 1 of 23 Transcript ofChair Powell’sPress Conference March20,2019 CHAIRPOWELL.Goodafternoon,everyone,andwelcome.Iwillbeginwithanoverview of economic conditions and an explanation of thedecisions theCommittee made at today’smeeting.My colleagues and I have oneoverarching goal: tosustain the economic expansion,with astrongjobmarketandstableprices,forthebenefitoftheAmericanpeople.TheU.S.economyis in a good place,and we willcontinue touse our monetary policy tools to help keep itthere.  Thejobsmarketisstrong,showinghealthierwagegainsandpromptingmanypeopletojoinorremain inthe workforce. The unemployment rate is near historic lows, and inflationremains nearour2percentgoal.WecontinuetoexpectthattheAmericaneconomywillgrowatasolidpace in 2019, although likely slower thanthe very strong pace of 2018. We believe that our currentpolicystanceisappropriate.Since last year, however, we havenotedsomedevelopments at home and around theworldthatbearcloseattention.Giventheoverallfavorableconditionsinoureconomy,mycolleagues and I will be patient in assessing what,if any, changes in the stanceofpolicy maybeneeded.Letmeexplaininmoredetailhowincomingdatawarrantourcurrentstanceandawait-and-see approach to changes. Withthebenefitoffiscalstimulusandothertailwinds,growthin2018wasstrong—infact, at 3.1 percent, the strongest year in more than adecade.  For some time, most forecasts have calledforgrowthtocontinuein2019atasomewhatlowerbutstillhealthypace.Forexample,last September,Committee participants saw growth coming in at about 2.5 percent thisyear. DataarrivingsinceSeptembersuggestthatgrowthisslowingsomewhatmorethanexpected. Financial conditions tightened considerablyover the fourthquarter.  Whileconditions March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 2 of 23 haveeased since then,theyremain less supportive of growth than during most of 2018. Growth has slowed insomeforeign economies—notably, in Europeand China.  While theU.S. economy showed little evidence of slowdown through the endof2018, the limited data we haveso far thisyear have been somewhat moremixed.  Unusually strong payrolljob growth inJanuary was followed bylittle growthat all in February. Smoothing through these variations, averagemonthlyjob growth appearsto havestepped down from last year’s strong pace, butjob gains remain well above the pace necessary to providejobs for new laborforce entrants.  Manyother labor market indicators continue toshowstrength. Weak retail salesdatafor December bounced backconsiderablyin January but, on balance, seem topoint to somewhatslower growth in consumerspending. Business fixed investment also appearsto be growing at aslower pace than last year. Inflation has been muted, andsomeindicatorsoflonger-term inflation expectations remain at the lowend of their rangesin recent years.  Along withthese developments, unresolved policy issues, such as Brexit andthe ongoing tradenegotiations,posesomerisks to the outlook. Much of thediscussion atour meetingfocusedon what we should make ofthevaried indicators. Today’sSummary of EconomicProjections, theSEP, reflects theassessmentsofindividual Committee participants. And these views arein line with a broadrange of other forecasts andpoint to a modest slowdown, with overallconditions remainingfavorable. FOMC participants sought—now see 2019 growth at roughly 2percent,with the unemployment rate remainingbelow 4 percent.  Core inflation, whichomitsthe effects of volatile food andenergy prices, remains close to 2 percent.  Declines inoil prices since last fallare expectedto push headline inflation below 2 percent for atime,but thiseffect is likelyto be temporary. Now, I’m March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 3 of 23 describingviews of the most likely outcomes, but historical experience remindsus that growthandinflationthis year could be stronger or weakerthan whatwe now project. The federal fundsrate is now in the broad range of estimates of neutral—the rate that tends neither tostimulatenor to restrain theeconomy.  As Inoted,my colleagues and Ithink that this settingiswell suited tothe current outlook and believethat weshouldbepatient inassessing the need for any change in the stance of policy.  “Patient” means thatwe see no need torush tojudgment.  It may be some time before theoutlook forjobsand inflation calls clearly for a change in policy. In discussingthe Committee’s projections, it’suseful to note what those projections are, as wellaswhat theyare not.  The SEP includes participants’ individual projectionsofthe most likely economic scenario, along with their views of the appropriate path of the federalfunds rate in that scenario. Views about themostlikely scenario form one input into ourpolicy discussions.  We alsodiscuss other plausible scenarios, including theriskofmore worrisome outcomes. Theseand otherscenarios and many otherconsiderations go into policy butare notreflected inprojections of the most likely case. Thus, we always emphasize that theinterest rate projectionsin the SEPare not aCommittee decision.  They are nota Committee plan.  As Chair Yellen noted some years ago, the FOMC statement, rather than the dot plot, is the device that the Committee uses to express its opinionsabout the likely path of rates. Today the Committeereleased Balance Sheet Normalization PrinciplesandPlans—revisedBalance Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans. Wehave long said that thesize of thebalancesheet willbe considered normalized when the balance sheet is once again at the smallest level consistent with conducting monetary policy efficiently and effectively.  We have sought to makethe normalizationprocesstransparent, predictable, and gradual in order to minimizeMarch20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 4 of 23 disruption and risks toour dual-mandate objectives. Today’sannouncement is theresult of discussionsover the past four FOMC meetings about how best toachieve thesegoals.  The plans havemany technical details, and I’llbe happy toanswerquestions onthose details. But, fornow, I’llsummarizethe key elements. Since October2017, wehave beenallowing our asset holdings to decline by notreinvesting all of thepayments we receive as securities matured or were prepaid.  Today we announcedthat we intend toslow the runoff of our assetsstarting inMayand to cease runoffentirelyin Septemberofthis year. In September,reserve balances may still be somewhat above the level required to conduct policy efficiently and effectively. Ifthis is so, we may hold the size of ourassetholdings roughly constant for a time. During this time, ongoing gradualincreases in currency and our other nonreserveliabilities would imply very gradual declines in reserve balances.  When the Committee judges that reserves should not declinefurther, securitiesholdings will again begin to rise, as dictated by the growthofdemand for our reserve andnonreserve liabilities. Webelieve that theseplanswill facilitatea predictable, transparent, and smooth process, and we will make additionaladjustments if conditions warrant. The Committee will soon turn toa few remaining normalizationtopics, including the desiredmaturitycomposition of our portfolio of Treasury securities.  We maintain our long-stated intention to returnto aportfolio consisting mainlyofTreasurysecurities. Thank you. And I willbeglad totake your questions.HEATHER LONG.  HeatherLongfrom the Washington Post.  On the broader economy, can you clarify howworried theFOMCisabout asteep slowdown?  Some of the actions todayMarch20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 5 of 23 look like there is more worry. And on the balance sheet,can you clarify: Doesthe FOMCseethe runoffasa form of monetarytightening?CHAIR POWELL.  So, onthe outlook, our outlookisa positive one.  So, as I mentioned, FOMC participants continueto see growth this year of around 2percent,just abit belowwhat wesawback in—at theend of last year. And part of that is seeing that economic fundamentals—underlying economic fundamentals arestillvery strong.  You have a strong labor market by most measures.  You have risingincomes.  You’ve got very lowunemployment.  Youhaveconfidence surveys forhouseholds andalso forbusinesses that are at attractive levels, and you also have financialconditions that aremore accommodativethan they were a couple of months ago. Sowe see the outlook as a positiveone. As far as balance sheet—the balancesheet plan,theanswerto that is, you asked whetherthat’s related to our monetary policy, in effect, and theanswer is really“no.” Weare—we still—wethink of the interest ratetool as theprincipaltool of monetarypolicy,and we think of ourselves as returning thebalance sheetto anormal level over the courseof thenext sixmonths.  Andwe’renot really thinkingofthoseas twodifferent tools of monetary policy.STEVE LIESMAN.  Steve Liesman, CNBC.  Mr. Chairman, can you talk about how global developments are affecting the U.S.?  What’s the causeof theweakness over there?  How much is it responsible for thedowngrade inGDP over here?  Andwhat impact are tariffs, both in the United States andretaliatory tariffs,having on both the U.S.and theglobal economies?  Thank you.CHAIR POWELL.  So the globaleconomy wasa tailwind forthe UnitedStatesin 2017.  That was the year of synchronized globalgrowth. And we began 2018 expectingand hoping for more of thesame. What happened instead is that the globaleconomy startedto graduallyslow, March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 6 of 23 andnow we see asituation where the European economy has slowed substantially—and so hasthe Chinese economy, althoughthe European economy more.  And just as strong globalgrowth was atailwind, weaker global growth can be a headwind to our economy. Howbigisthat effect?  It’s hard tobe precise about it,but, clearly, we will feelthat. It is an integrated global economy, andglobal financial markets are integrated as well. In terms of what’s causingit, it seemsto be a range of differentthings.  InChina, youhave, youknow,factors that are very specific to China.  The mainpoint,though, is that, I wouldsay, theoutlook—let’slook atthe outlook. Chinese authorities have taken manysteps sincethe middle of last year to support economicactivity, andI thinkthe base case isthat,ultimately, Chinese activity will stabilize atan attractive level. And in Europe, you know, wesee some weakening, but, again, wedon’tsee—we don’t see recession,and we dosee positive growth still. Youask about tariffs.  I would say, tariffs maybe a factorin China.  I don’tthink they’re the main factor.  I thinkthe mainfactors are the delevering campaignthat the government undertook a couple of years ago andalso just thelonger-termslowing to a more sustainable pace of growth that economies find as they mature.  In terms of ourown economy, the level of tariffs is relativelysmall in thesize of oureconomy—relative to the size of oureconomy. We have, since thebeginning of the year—and before, really—been hearing from ourextensive network of business contacts alot ofconcerns about tariffs, concernsabout materialcosts on imported products, and the loss of marketsand things like that, depending onwhich industry, so there’s a fair amount of uncertainty. It’s hard tosay how much of an effect that’s having onour economy. It’svery hard to tease that apart. But I will say, it’s been a prominent concern among ourbusiness contacts forsome time now. March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 7 of 23 JAMES PUZZANGHERA.  Hi. Thank you, Chairman.  I wantto switch gears temporarily to WellsFargo.  Wells Fargolastweekannounced thatitschief executive received a 5 percentpay raise lastyear, and thiscomes among continued settlements bythebankofvariousconsumerabuse and reports that newconsumer-unfriendlysales incentives arereturning.  Do you have concerns about Wells Fargo’s efforts tofix its problems, anddo youexpect the assetcap to remain in place beyond this year? CHAIR POWELL.  Wells Fargo. Sowhat happened at Wells Fargo really was a remarkably widespread seriesofbreakdowns, really, in their risk-management apparatus, whichresultedin significant consumerabuses,let’s say.  Andasit’s goneon and on, it’s become clearthat—I think some timeago it became clear that these are deep problems that needed to be addressed ina fundamental kind of a way. So there’sa lotofwork to do onthat. And we putin place, really, anunprecedentedsanction in theformofan asset growth cap,and we will notlift that until Wells Fargo gets their armsaround this, comes forward with plans, implements those plans,and we’re satisfiedwith what they’ve done. And that’snot where weare rightnow. JAMES PUZZANGHERA.  Do you believe it’s appropriate—do you believe it’sappropriate forthe CEOtobe getting a payraise in light of those conditions, in termsofcorporate governance?CHAIR POWELL.  Youknow, our mainsupervisory focus is on the companyfixing its risk-management approach and fundamentallyrebuilding thatapproach. We don’t approveindividual pay packages. Wedo supervise boards of directors for,you know,for having a setofcompensation practices that don’t reward short-term risk-takingand that sort of thing. And wewillsupervise based on that.March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 8 of 23 MICHAEL MCKEE. MichaelMcKee with Bloomberg Radio and Television. I wonder if you could discuss thebalance of risks.  Iknow you said thatthe outlook among the Committee members is a positive one, butsince the end of the meeting, the 3-month–10-yearTreasury spreadhas fallen to 7 basis points, and now, according to fed funds futurestrading, there’s a50percent chance of a rate cut by next January.  How faroff are themarkets? What doyou think the risks actually are?CHAIR POWELL.  Well,first, the data arenot currently sending asignalthatwe need to move in one direction or another,in my view. I would sayit this way:  We see apositive outlook for this year, a favorable outlook for thisyear, as I mentioned.  So, in our SEP projections, Committee members, participants, generallysee growth of around 2percent. They see unemploymentremaining below 4 percent. They see inflation remaining close to target. Andtheysee growth, as I said, around 2 percent.  So,you know, that’s a positive outlook.  It’s afavorable outlook.  We’re also very mindful—andwe have been, of course, all along—ofwhatthe risksare. And yousee—you mentioned some ofthem.  Youknow,youseeslowing global growth. You still have—there’s no resolution of Brexit.  There’sno resolution,really, of thetrade talks.  These are ongoing risks.  We’re alsocarefullymonitoring what’s happening with U.S. growth.  We called that out in ourstatement.  You know, the limited data that we havedo show aslowdown.  On the other hand, asI mentioned, wesee theunderlying economicfundamentals for growththis year as still very positive. Sothat’s really howwe’rethinking about it.JIMTANKERSLEY.  Hi, Mr. Chairman.  Jim Tankersley, New York Times.  I’m curious, you’renow a full percentage point—actually, morethan a percentagepoint—belowthe White House in your projectionsfor growth this year. By mycalculations,that’s the largest spreadMarch20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 9 of 23 we’ve seen sincetheend of the recession betweentheWhite House and the Fed.  Why, for one, doyou see—do you think you seethe economy so differently thanthey do,and do youworryat allabout implications forpolicy from that? CHAIR POWELL.  I haven’t—I haven’tseen their projection.  I wouldn’t comment on their projection.  I wouldtakeit this way.  Youcan thinkofgrowth asbeingcomposed of two things.  And oneisreally growth inthe workforce—morehours worked.  Andthe other is productivity—it’soutput per hour.  Youcanreally think of growthas those two things. And I’ve beencalling—often mentioning these days that it would begreatif wehad national-levelpoliciesto support higher labor force participation. TheUnited States is now oneofthe lowest countriesamong the advanced economies,in terms of ourlabor forceparticipation by prime-age workers. Andthat’s aplacewhere we can grow faster.  If wecan bring more people into the laborforce andgive them a chance to contribute to and benefit from ouroverall prosperity, thatwill bea great thing for the country.  So Iwould like to see that. Productivity is muchharder.  It’s verydifficult to project productivity over longstretches of time. It’s a function of evolvingtechnology. So,I guess I would say, what is thepotential growth rate? It’s quite hard toknow with any precision, and Ijust would liketo see us, you know, undertake an effort tomake it be as high asit can sustainably be. JIMTANKERSLEY.  Aquickfollow-up onthat. Do you seethe tax cuts—the 2017taxcuts as having provided alargeboost to labor force participationasthe White House does? CHAIR POWELL.  I would say so.  Ithink it’sclear that the tax and spending policies that wereadopted early lastyearsupporteddemand in a significant waylast year.  Andit’s also the case, I think, that theyshould have some supply-side effects.  I thinkit’s hard to know, it’s hard toidentifythosewith any precision,and we hope they’re—we hope they’re very large. You March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 10 of23 know, the idea wouldbe that lowering corporate taxes wouldspur more corporate investment, whichwould spurmore productivity, and loweringindividual taxes would spur greater labor forceparticipation. I wouldn’t want tobe handing—youknow,assigning creditorblame for that, butI do think thatthe performance of labor force participation over the last,really, three or four years hasbeen an upsidesurprise thatmostpeopledidn’tseecoming, andit’s extremely welcome. MARTIN CRUTSINGER.  Marty Crutsinger with theAssociated Press.  Withthe new dotplot today,you’ve gone from tworate hikes in 2019to zero.  You still have oneshowingfor next year.  The fed fundsfutures trading, as has beenalluded to, is showing rate cuts atthe end of this year.  Are they—is that a possibilityin yourmind,given the sharp change you’ve made atthis meeting?CHAIR POWELL.  As I mentioned, the datathat we’reseeingare notcurrently sending a signal which suggestsmoving in either direction forme,which is really why we’re being patient. We feel our policy rate is in the range of neutral.  Theeconomy is growing at about trend.  Inflationisclose to target. Unemployment is under 3 percent.1  It’s a great time for usto be patientand watchand waitand see how things evolve. VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guida with Politico. Onstress testing, I wanted to ask, how doyou respondtocriticism that the Fed’srecentmove to remove the qualitative objectionfrom CCAR makes it less transparent to thegeneral public? And then, also, Governor Brainard dissented on that decision, and she’s dissented onsomeother decisions as well regulatorily recently.  Does it concern you, given that the Fed has traditionallybeen a consensus-
1ChairPowellintendedtosaythattheunemploymentrateisunder4percent.March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 11 of23 based organization, if you keephaving these decisions where, you know, aBoard member is not onboard with them?CHAIR POWELL.  So you mentionedthe qualitative aspectof CCAR. And U.S.—the large U.S. financial institutionshave made significant progress there and are now much better atthe capital planningprocess.  Andfor, really,sometime now, for a couple ofyears,we’ve talked about movingsupervision of that process—movingto asupervisoryapproachto that rather than having a pass/fail in the stress tests.  We’ve been talking aboutthat for quite a while. And Ithink, given thelevelthat the bankshave moved to in capitalplanning, we did that. It shouldn’tbe a bigsurprise—something we’ve been talkingaboutdoingfor a couple ofyears. For banksthat arenewer toCCAR and haven’t made thatkindofprogress,then they’re still going to bepart of—they’re still going to have aqualitative testuntil they canreach similar levelsofachievement. In terms of having disparate views,I—look, we try—weare very much a consensus-driven organization.  We try veryhard to reach consensus on things.  In the end,it’s very healthy to have disparate views and tostatethem publicly and putthem on the record.  It’s nothing buthealthy from my standpoint.  We’llalways betryingto reachconsensus,and, you know, I’m committedto that. TREVORHUNNICUTT.  Trevor Hunnicuttfrom Reuters.  Just—you mentioned thatyou have,kind of,a positiveoutlook as itregards the economy but alsosee slower growth on the household side and the business side.  Given howbig of a part of the U.S. economy thatis, whatgives you, kind of, confidence that boththe slowdownwe’reseeingistemporary? CHAIR POWELL.  So on the household side, what we saw was avery weakreadingon retail salesin December and then a bounceback in theJanuary reading.  And, you know, itwasa March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 12 of23 surprise, I would say, andinconsistent with a significant amount of other data.  We’re not dismissingit inanyway,but I would go back to, what is it that supports consumer spending?  It’s70 percent of theeconomy, as youpoint out.  It’sstrong economic underlying fundamentals,so, rising wages, highlevelsofemployment, low levels of unemployment, highlevels of job creation, confidence. The household confidencesurveys havemoved back up towherethey were last summer.  So we look at those fundamentals,and we think thatlooks like a setting inwhichconsumption will havesupport fromunderlying economic fundamentals.  Andthat’s really what we’re thinking there. So,you know, we’realso patiently watchingand waiting andnotassuming. We’re nottaking no signal from the incomingdata;that’s whywe called it out in our statement.  So I think our eyes are open on this. NICK TIMIRAOS.  Nick Timiraosofthe Wall Street Journal. ChairPowell, in1998 theFed easedpolicy in a way that some saymay haveavoided a recession, others saymay have helped fuel the NASDAQtech stock bubble.  Andfinancial conditionshave easedconsiderablythis year since the policy pivot thatyou made clear in January.  The S&P, for example, is just3 percentbelow last summer’s peak. And so, I wonder, does this episode from 20 years ago bearatall on your thinkingtoday about the risksposed by risingasset valuesin an environmentofa shallowerpolicy path? CHAIR POWELL.  We’re in a verydifferent world today and post-crisis, because we nowvery carefully monitor financial conditions and financial stabilityconcerns on an ongoing basis, and we publish areporttwice a year, and wehave quarterly Board meetings andbriefingswhere we lookdeeply into these things.  So this is somethingwe have very much on our radar screen. And Iwould say, overall, we don’tseefinancial stability vulnerabilitiesashigh.  There are some aspects of the financial markets that we’recarefullymonitoring, and those are in the March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 13 of23 nature of things that might beamplifiers to a downturn—as opposedto afinancial stability concern,which mightlead toa financial crisisand that kindofthing, which we don’t see. So we domonitor that. AndI would also say, you know, that thewhole question of monetarypolicy andfinancial stabilityisan unsettled and difficult one in our world. We do think thatthe principal tools for, you know, for managingfinancial stability are regulation, supervision, macroprudential tools,and those sorts of thingsasopposed to changing theinterestrate. But we’re certainly verymindful of financial conditions and those risks. NICK TIMIRAOS.  If Icouldask a follow-up—if it’s thecasethat we’rein alowerneutral interestrate world where you could have more assetprice appreciation, do you thinkthe Fed needs moremacroprudential tools so that it doesn’t have to lean on monetarypolicy to do so much?CHAIR POWELL.  It’s a very difficultquestionwitha long answer. We—inour system, wemainly rely on“throughthe cycle”toolslike high capital and stress tests.  Our financial stability systemisbuilt on those tools:  high capital, highliquidity, resolution planning, stress testing. So those are alwayson.  We also have sometools, likethe countercyclical capital buffer,whichwe can deploy at times when vulnerabilities are meaningfully above normal. But we do rely on thosetools.  And Iwouldsay, our banks are wellcapitalized.  They’re far better capitalized and better aware of their risks and more liquid than they were before the financial crisis.  So they’ll bemore resilient in, youknow, indifficult states of the economy. DONNABORAK. Donna Borak with CNN.  Included in thePresident’s fiscal 2020budget is anewestimate that the nation’sdebt will balloon to morethan $31trillion overthe next decade, by2029.  You’vepreviously said that thecountry is on an unsustainable fiscalpath.  March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 14 of23 How alarming is that numberto you? And, while theUnited States might not bequite there yet, whendo youbegin to worry about a possible credit crisis? CHAIR POWELL.  I do think that deficitsmatter, and Ido think—I thinkit’s not really controversial tosay that ourdebt can’t growfasterthan our economy indefinitely and that’s what it’sdoingnow.  So thisissomething we willhave to dealwith,and I think we can’treallylose sight of that, and I’d liketoseea greater focus on that over time.  It’s notin the nature of a near-term debtcrisisoranything like that, and I wouldn’t wantto try to predictwhen that wouldhappen, but it is somethingthat it’simportant that the publicdiscussion really come back to, if I can saythat. And wewill have to deal withit eventually.JAMES POLITI.  James Politi of theFinancial Times.  There’s hugeuncertainty atthe momentover the fateoftheBrexitnegotiations.  How much of a factor hasthis been forthe Fed in turning towardsa kind of patient approach tomonetary policy, andwhat’s yourbase caseon that? And on the size of the balance sheet, what’s your—do you have a numerical estimatefor where itwill beat theend of September once therunoff is complete?CHAIR POWELL.  So, of course, we’re watching Brexit carefully and hoping that it can be resolved inan orderly way.  From our standpoint, the part of it that we can control is that we’ve been involvedwithsupervising our financial institutions that are active either in theUnitedKingdom or the European Union or bothtomake surethat they’re ready for the full range of possibleoutcomesto the—toBrexit.  So—and in doing so, we’ve also had—we’ve also worked alongside regulators fromthe UnitedKingdomand theEU. So wedo, again, hopethat that can beresolvedwell, butwe knowthat our banksare wellcapitalized andresilient to different kinds of events.March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 15 of23 In terms of the size of the balance sheet, the balance sheet will be of a size of approximately 17 percent of GDP around theend of this year, down from 25 percent of GDP atthe end of 2014—so, significantly smaller relativeto GDPthan it was. I’m guessingyou’re looking for adollar number, though, probably, and thatwould be—so,for the size of the balance sheet, it looks likeit’ll be a bit above$3.5trillion then.GREGROBB.  GregRobb from MarketWatch. Chairman Powell, couldyou talk through your outlook for inflationthis year? Aren’t—you’re not concernedabout it?  And rising—why aren’t rising wages feeding into inflation? CHAIR POWELL.  Let me takewages first, if I can.  So wages have moved up in the last couple of years and are nowrunning at healthier,higherlevels,and that’sa good thing.  In fact, a lot of the wagegainshave beengoing tolower-paid workers, as can happen late in thecycle, whichisalso a goodthing. So—but that’s not priceinflation, that’swageinflation.  Our mandate, sorry, is price inflation.  So whatI see is inflation that’s closeto 2 percentbut thatsort of keeps bumpingup against 2 percent andthen maybe moving back downa little bit. AndI don’t feel thatwe have kind of convincinglyachieved our2 percent mandate in a symmetrical way.  Now, what dowe mean by“symmetrical”?  What we really mean is that we would look at—we know that inflation will move around onboth sidesofthetarget, and what we sayisthat we wouldbe equally concerned with inflation persistently above as persistentlybelow the target.So that’s reallyour framework. And Idon’tthink we’vequite achieved that yet, because we’re really 10yearsdeep in this—almost 10years—in this expansion, and inflation is still kind of,I’d say,not, you know, clearly meeting ourtarget.  So that’s one of the reasons why we’rebeing patient. I think, as I’ve said before,I think inflation that is a little bit below ourtarget—March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 16 of23 particularlyheadlineinflation this year willbe,youknow,meaningfully belowour target formost of the year becauseof lower oilprices,but we project thatcore will be too—that givesus the ability to bepatient and notmove untilwe see that our target goals are being achieved.GREGROBB.  I just wanted topress a littlebit about, what is the story the Committee—you know, when you get in thediscussion todayand yesterday about inflation, what kindofisthe story that emerges? CHAIR POWELL.  So there are a bunchofdifferent stories.  There’sno realeasy answer. Oneofthem is justthat the naturalrate of unemployment is lower than people think.  That’s oneway to think about it, that there’s still more slack inthe economy. Another is that expectationsplaya very—inflationexpectations play a very key role in our frameworkand otherframeworks, and,you know,thereisthe possibilitythatsomepeoplediscuss of expectationsbeing anchored but below2 percent. And so,either way, inflation itself has kindofbounced around a little below2 percent. That’stherecord. PAULKIERNAN. Hi, Chairman Powell. Thanksfor thequestion.  Paul Kiernan from Dow Jones Newswires. I’m justkind of curious—I mean, this below-target inflation is a global phenomenon, at least across advanced economies, and I’djust like tokind of hear yourthoughts about what kindofchallenges that poses topolicymakers like yourself andtheglobal economy in general.  Yes,thanks.CHAIR POWELL.  It’s a major challenge.  It’s one of the majorchallengesofour time, really,to haveinflation—you know, downward pressure oninflation, let’s say.  Itgives central banks lessroomto,you know, to respond to downturns, right?  So if inflation expectations are below2 percent, they’re always going to be pulling inflation down, and we’re goingto be paddling upstream intrying to, you know, keepinflation at 2 percent, which gives ussomeroomMarch20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 17 of23 to cut, youknow,when it’s time to cutrates when the economy weakens. And, you know, that’s somethingthat centralbanks face all over theworld, and we certainly face that problem too.  It’soneofthe—one ofthe things we’re lookinginto as part of ourstrategicmonetary policy review this year.  The proximity to the zero lower bound calls formore creative thinking about wayswe can, you know, uphold the credibilityof our inflationtarget, and, you know, we’re open minded about wayswe can do that. EDWARD LAWRENCE. EdwardLawrence fromFox Business Network.  So I countedfive downgrades in the firstparagraphofthe FOMC statement.  What conditions doyou need to see in order for arate cutora ratehike on the otherside of that then?CHAIR POWELL.  Well,we—I think we were—we wanted to be carefulto go ahead andacknowledgethe things.  I thinkit’s relatively littlehard data sofarthis year, butwe were careful topoint outlowerretail sales—the weak November meeting—BFI, allthosethings, and I think that was theright thingto do.2 Notwithstandingthat,we do havea positive outlookfor theyear for thereasons I mentioned—youknow,solid underlying economicfundamentals, et cetera.  So, andin terms of what it would take, I’d say, again, today we don’t see any—wedon’tseedatacoming in that suggests thatwe should movein eitherdirection.  Theysuggest thatwe should remain patient and letthesituation clarify itself over time.  When the time comes, we’ll act appropriately. MATTHEW BOESLER.  Hi.  Matthew Boesler at Bloomberg.  Fed Vice Chairman RichClarida hastalked abouthow the decline in labor’s shareofincomeand the corresponding highprofit margins might mean thatlowerunemployment and higher wage growth is notflowing through to price inflation the way it used to.  But, sofar throughout this tightening cycle,the Fed 2ChairPowellintendedtopointtotheweakreadingonretailsalesforDecember2018.March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 18 of23 has not allowed wage growthto riseabove longer-term interestrates until just very recently.  So I’m wonderingif, goingforward, given theseinsights aboutthe labor share and high profit margins and the linkage between wages andprices, wouldyou be infavorof allowing wage growth to continue accelerating without matching that with higherinterestrates? CHAIR POWELL.  Well,let mesay that we’ve had, you know, a significant moveup inwages and compensationover the last fewyears, and I—which does not trouble me from thestandpoint of inflation.  We’ve had—alsohad—inother cycles, we’ve had situations where, you know, unitlabor costs were moving up above inflation, andthat didn’t lead to price inflation. It does—youknow, intheory, it can squeeze corporate margins, and,you know,that can’t goon indefinitely.  But, nonetheless, Idon’tsee thecurrent wagepicture as concerningfroman inflation standpoint. MATTHEW BOESLER.  More generally, to the extent that wage growth inexcess of interest rates allows households topaydowndebt faster, whereas interest ratesin excess of wage growth risks a further buildup in debt,how do you accountfor the sortoffinancial stability consequences of varyinginterestrates relative to wage growth? CHAIR POWELL.  I don’t think we look at—I understand what you’reasking,but we’re looking at—our mandateispriceinflationand maximum employment, and that’s what we’re looking at with settinginterestrates.  And we also monitor financial stability very carefully across all meaningful asset categories.  I don’t think we tie itparticularly to therelationship you’retalking about.NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER.  Nancy Marshall-Genzerwith Marketplace. Just aquick follow-up on Brexit. You mentionedthat you’remaking sure thatU.S.financial institutions areready for whatever outcome.  I’m wondering, can yoube alittle morespecific March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 19 of23 about that? And also,howare you preparing for any pressures that a hard Brexit wouldput on the U.S. dollar?CHAIR POWELL.  Well,asI mentioned, you know, with thestress tests that thelargest financial institutions—andthoseare the ones that tend to beactive internationally—that they undergo every year,we putthem throughvery largefinancial shockswith large losses andbig changes inmarkets every year.  And we vary that every year.  So that’s a prettygood—you know, having done that fora number ofyearsnow, that’s—and having them berequired to have adequate capital and liquidity even after all that happens. So that’s a good thing to have done,knowing thatyou’re going intosomething that’s quite unknown,which may prove stressful, it may notprove stressful,depending on what the outcome is. SoI thinkall that has probably prepared our institutions well. That said,nothing like thishas happened inrecent years, andso it’sreally hard to beconfident.  So we’revery watchful about what’sgoing on.NANCY MARSHALL-GENZER. And as far as the dollar goes?CHAIR POWELL.  So wedon’t—you know, we—the dollarisreallythe businessofthe Treasury Department.  It’s certainly afinancial condition unto itself that playsinto our models, butwe don’t, you know, seekormodel or attempt toaffectthe dollar directly with ourpolicies. JOHNHELTMAN.  Hi.  John Heltman—John Heltmanwith AmericanBanker. I havea question about the Fed’sproposal fromOctober oflastyearregardingenhanced prudential standards for banks above $250 billion.  Someanalysts have suggested that that proposal could encourage consolidation mergers and acquisition among banks, particularly at theupper end of the range.  I’mcurious if the Fed anticipated that outcomeand whether you have any reservations or whether you—theFed cares about bankconsolidationmore generally. March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 20 of23 CHAIR POWELL.  We’re not motivatedbya particular view of industry structure thatwe’re trying to achievethrough our regulation.  Ithinkwe wantto havebanksofall different sizes andwith different businessmodels out there carryingout their functionsin the economy.  So that’s how we think about that. Iwouldalso say, when banks merge and moveinto a largerasset category, they get stronger regulation, notweaker regulation.  So if you thinkabout it, you know,if you’re a medium-sized bank and you mergewith anothermedium-sized bank, you wind up beingmore thana medium-sized bank, youknow. Butthe senseof our tapering is that—“tailoring,” sorry—our tailoring policyisthat the highestexpectations fall upon thelargest,mostsystemicallyimportant, mostcomplex institutions, andthen at everystep along theway, the expectations become moretailored to therisks thatthat institution actually presentsto the economy.  So— BRIAN CHEUNG.  Hi,ChairPowell. Brian Cheung with Yahoo Finance.  Thanks for taking my question. So asthe Fed remains onpause, does the central bank findthe onus on fiscalpolicy to extend its economic recovery and fend off a slowdown—as in,isthe Fed positioning itself to take on a reactionary role to whatever fiscal policyisdoing? I’masking because we’reseeing thewaning effectoftaxreform and no materialnews oninfrastructure,so just wonderingkind of how you feel the monetary policy–fiscal policy balance is in swing rightnow. CHAIR POWELL.  So wetake—wetake fiscal policyas, youknow, as exogenous towhat we do.  You know, in other words, whatever happens with fiscal policy, we takethat. We don’t evaluateit, we don’tcriticize it, and we don’toverreactto iteither.  So I think it’s just a fact.  It’s just an external factabout the economy forus. I mean,our policy is—thereason we’re March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 21 of23 onhold is that we think ourpolicy rate is ina good place, andwe think theeconomy is in a goodplace, andwe’re watching carefully as we seethese events evolve around the world andat home, andwe thinkthat’s what weneed tobedoing. STEVEN BECKNER. SteveBeckner, freelance journalist reporting for NPR,Mr.Chairman. TheFed has been allowing the average maturity of securities in its bondportfolio to lengthen. Is this aimed at—consciously aimedat flattening the yield curve, andisthat going to be part of the Fed’s longer-run balance sheetstrategy?  And if flattening the yield curve is a conscious long-term strategy, are you concerned about the side effect of the heightening concerns about a flatter or inverted yield curve being a harbinger of recession?CHAIR POWELL.  The basic answer to your question is “no.” We are—the decisionabout the maturitycomposition of theFed’s balance sheet in the longer run lies ahead of us.  We havenot made that decision, and we’re—we reallyhaven’tbegun tohave a seriousseriesofdiscussionsover a seriesofmeetings tograpple with that.  That, Ithink,will be something we turn toreasonably soon,but I think it willtake some time. It’s a consequential decision and one that needs some thought.  We’ve had alot of balance sheetdiscussions, as I mentioned, overthe last four meetings, but thisisthe next big one that—big decision that we’llface. And,you know, Ithink we’re not going to bein arush toresolve it,but we’ll turn toit soon. STEVEN BECKNER.  Can I just follow up, please? Well, how do youaccount for the fact thatthe average maturity has in fact been lengthening and contributing toa flattening of the yield curve? Is that—what’s—what’s causingthat? CHAIR POWELL.  I think, isn’t it justthat as securities roll off, you wind upinvesting in—you know, as a 10-year rolls off,youwind up investing in a 10-year, andautomaticallythat March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 22 of23 lengthens things.  It’snot at alla plan to lengthen the balance sheet.  It’s just been—we try to havea practice that we don’tdeviate from, and it’s transparent, and—nopolicy message in that. JEAN YUNG. Hi, Jean Yung with MarketNews. I wanted to ask, at what point do you expect tobegin to allowthebalance sheetto grow slowly again?  Whatare—how will you make that decision? CHAIR POWELL.  So, asI—as I mentioned, the balance sheet runoff will stop at about—at September 30. And if it is ourview atthat time that we’re still a waysawayfrom—a ways abovea balancesheet that is what we need to efficiently andeffectively conduct monetary policy, at that time we willhold the balance sheet constant.  And thenwhat’ll happen is, organically, very gradually,currency andother nonreservedliabilities will grow, and reserves willshrink.Andthe question you’reasking is, howlong willthat go on?  The truth is, we don’t know, andwe don’t really know thatwe’ll move past September 30th.  The level of reservedemandissomething that we’ve put a lot of effort and time into creating estimates,basedon market intelligenceand surveysand thatkind of thing. Thetruth is, wedon’t know.  It may evolve overtime. Sowe’ll just have to see.  I wouldn’twant to put atime outtherefor that, but—so I’ll just leaveit there.COURTENAYBROWN. Hi, Mr. Chairman.  CourtenayBrown from Axios. Are you concerned at allwhatthe market impact will be should the Fed resume policy tighteningsomewhere down the line?  As I’m sure you know, the market listensto you very, very closely. CHAIR POWELL.  Youknow, I’m justgoingto say that I think we’re in a good place rightnow, whichis, we’re beingpatient, we’re watching, we don’t see any data pushingus to March20, 2019   Chair Powell’sPressConference  FINAL
Page 23 of23 move rates in either direction, and we’re going to watch carefully and patiently as weallow events to evolve.  Andwhen they doclarify, wewill act appropriately. 