Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dualmandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. Despite elevated uncertainty, the economy is in a solid position. The unemployment rate remains low, and the labor market is at or near maximum employment. Inflation has come down a great deal but has been running somewhat above our 2 percent longer run objective. In support of our goals, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged. We believe that the current stance of monetary policy leaves us well positioned to respond in a timely way to potential economic developments. I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Following growth of 2.5 percent last year, GDP was reported to have edged down in the first quarter, reflecting swings in net exports that were driven by businesses bringing in imports ahead of potential tariffs. This unusual swing has complicated GDP measurement. Private investment, and government spendinggrew at a solid 2.5 percent rate. Within PDFP, growth of consumer spending moderated, while investment in equipment and intangibles rebounded from weakness in the fourth quarter. Surveys of households and businesses, however, report a decline in sentiment over recent months and elevated uncertainty about the economic outlook, largely reflecting trade policy concerns. It remains to be seen how these developments might affect future spending and investment. In our Summary of Economic Projections, the median participant projects GDP to rise 1.4 percent this year and 1.6 percent next yearsomewhat slower than projected in March. In the labor market, conditions have remained solid. Payroll job gains averaged 135,000 per month over the past three months. The unemployment rate, at 4.2 percent, remains low and has stayed in a narrow range for the past year. Wage growth has continued to moderate while still outpacing inflation. Overall, a wide set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market are broadly in balance and consistent with maximum employment. The labor market is not a source of significant inflationary pressures. The median projection for the unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.5 percent at the end of this year and next, a bit higher than projected in March. Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid2022 but remains somewhat elevated relative to our 2 percent longerrun goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.3 percent over the 12 months ending in May and thatexcluding the volatile food and energy categoriescore PCE prices rose 2.6 percent. Nearterm measures of inflation expectations have moved up over recent months, as reflected in both market and surveybased measures. Respondents to surveys of consumers, businesses, and professional forecasters point to tariffs as the driving factor. Beyond the next year or so, however, most measures of longerterm expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation this year isis 3 percent, somewhat higher than projected in March. The median inflation projection falls to 2.4 percent in 2026 and 2.1 percent in 2027. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent and to continue reducing the size of our balance sheet. We will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. Changes to trade, immigration, fiscal, and regulatory policies continue to evolve, and their effects on the economy remain uncertain. The effects of tariffs will depend, among other things, on their ultimate level. Expectations of that level, and thus of the related economic effects, reached a peak in April and have since declined. Even so, increases in tariffs this year are likely to push up prices and weigh on economic activity. The effects on inflation could be short livedreflecting a onetime shift in the price level. It’s also possible that the inflationary effects could instead be more persistent. Avoiding that outcome will depend on the size of the tariff effects, on how long it takes for them to pass through fully into prices, and, ultimately, on keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our obligation is to keep longerterm inflation expectations well anchored and to prevent a onetime increase in the price level from becoming an ongoing inflation problem. As we act to meet that obligation, we will balance our maximumemployment and pricestability mandates, keeping in mind that, without price stability, we cannot achieve the long periods of strong labor market conditions that benefit all Americans. We may find ourselves in the challenging scenario in which our dualmandate goals are in tension. If that were to occur, we would consider how far the economy is from each goal and the potentially different time horizons over which those respective gaps would be anticipated to close. For the time being, we are well positioned to wait to learn more about the likely course of the economy before considering any adjustments to our policy stance. In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. The median projection projectsparticipantmedian participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.9 percent at the end of this year, the same as projected in March. The median projection declines to 3.6 percent at the end of next year and to 3.4 percent at the end of 2027, a little higher than the March projection. These individual forecasts are always subject to uncertainty, and, as I have noted, uncertainty is unusually elevated. And, of course, these projections are not a Committee plan or decision. At this meeting, the Committee continued its discussions as part of our fiveyear review of our monetary policy framework. We focused on issues related to assessing the risks and uncertainties that are relevant for monetary policy and the potential implications for policy strategy and communications. Our review includes outreach and public events involving a wide range of parties, including Fed Listens events around the country and a research conference that we held last month. We are open to new ideas and critical feedback, and we will take on board lessons of the last five years in determining our findings. We intend to wrap up any modifications to our Statement on LongerRun Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy by late summer. After that, we will consider enhancements to our suite of communications tools, including the SEP. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy: maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. And we at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

So we’ve had three months of, of favorable inflation readings since the high readings of January and February, and that’s, of course, highly welcome news. Part of that just is that services, core servicesboth housing services and nonhousing services have really been grinding down toward levels that arethat are consistent with 2 percent inflation. So that’s the good news. We’ve had goods inflation just moving up a bit, and, of course, we expectas youas you point out, we, we do expect to see more of that over the course of the summer. It takes some time for tariffs to work their way through the chain of distribution to the end consumer. A good example of that would be, goods being sold at retailers today may have been imported several months agobefore tariffs were imposedso we’re beginning to see some effects. And we do expect to see more of them over coming months. We dowe do also see price increases in some of the relevant categories like personal computers and audiovisual equipmentthings like that that are attributable to tariff increases. In addition, we look at surveys of businesses, and there, there are many of those. And, and, you, you do see a range of things, but, but many, many companies do expect toto, to put all orsome or all of the effect of tariffs through to the next, next person in thein the chain and, ultimately, to the consumer. Todayyou know, the amount of thesethe, the amount of the tariff effects, the size of the tariff effects, their duration, and the time it will take are all highly uncertain. So that, that is why we think the appropriate thing to do is to hold where we are as we learn more, and we think our policy stance is, is in a good placewhere we’re well positioned to react to incoming developments.

So if you look at the forecast, you will see that people do generally expect inflation to move up and then to come back down. But we can’t just assume that. Of course, we don’t know that, and, you know, our, our job is to make sureone of our jobsto make sure that a onetime increase in inflation doesn’t turn into an inflation problem. And that, againthat will depend on the size of the effects, how long it takes for them to come in, and, and, ultimately, on, on keeping inflation expectations anchored.

So I would focus most on theon the nearer term. As you thinkas you get out to theto the later years, it’s hard toit’s hard for anybody to know where the economy is going. You didn’t see people moving their longerterm, you know, estimate of the neutral rate, for example, at this meeting. Soand those things are probably slow moving. So I thinkI think if you look at what’s happening here since Marchthis is since March, right? you see a little slower growth, just a tiny tick up, onetenth tick up, in, in unemployment, and you see inflation moving up threetenths. And by the way, it wasit was a similar move from the December SEP to the March. So that’s what you see. You see the, the effects of tariffs. I think we learned in April, after the March meeting, that substantially higher tariffs were likely, and then since then, the estimates of where the tariffs will be have actually moved back down, although still at an elevated level. So we’re adapting in real time, and what you see is, you know, an, an accumulation of individual assessments.

So what we said was that uncertainty has, hasuncertainty about the economic outlook has diminished but remains elevated. Many, many surveys say that. They do. Soand, and, that’sthat’s actually a line from the Tealbook, which you can see in five years. Remember to check that. [Laughter]

Nobut if you think of that, tariff uncertaintyuncertainty really peaked in April and since then has come down. And that’sthat’s really what that’s just acknowledging. It’s diminished but still elevatedthat it’s uncertainty. So I think that’s an accurate statement.

So we dowe do, of course, monitor all those things. I, I think if you look at the overall picture, you know, what you’re seeing is 4.2 percent unemployment and an economy that’s growing at aat a rate hard to know, given the, the unusual flows in the first quarter. But it appears to be 1½, 2 percentmaybe a little better than that. Sentiment has come up off of its very low levels. It’s stillit’s still depressed. So, you know, you canyou can point to thingsthe housing market is a longerrun problem and also a shortrun problem. I don’t think it’s indicative ofyou know, basically, the situation is, we have a longerrun shortage of housing, and we also have high rates right now. I think the best thing we can do for the housing market is to restore price stability in a sustainable way and, and create a strong labor market, and that’s the best thing we can do for the housing market. You asked about the job marketagain, look at labor force participation. Look at wages. Look at job creation. They’re all at healthy levels now. I, I would say you can see perhaps a very, very slow continued cooling, but nothing that’s troubling at this time. But, you know, we watch itwe watch it very, very carefully. So, overall, again, the current stance of monetary policy leaves us well positioned to respond in a timely way to economic developments, andfor nowand we’ll be watching the data carefully.

So this is very much the conversation we had today and yesterday. There, there are many, many different scenariosmany combinations of scenarios where inflation does or doesn’t prove out to be at the levels we think and where the labor market does or doesn’t soften. And I think what, what you see people doing is looking ahead at a time of very high uncertainty and writing down what they think the most likely case is. No one holds these, these rate paths with a great deal of conviction, and everyone would agree that they’re all going to be data dependent. And thatyou can make a case for, for any of the rate paths, I think, that you see in, in the SEP. And, you know, we do this once a quarter. It’sit’s a hard thing to do at thisparticularly at this time. But it does reflectyou know, if you see somebody writing down, you know, a, a rate path that involves cuts, that’s them saying, “Yes, I think we will get to a place, more likely than not, where cuts will be appropriate.” And it could beit could be a joint probability of a number of possible outcomes. Again, remember how much uncertainty we face, though.

So it’sit’sagain, it’s very, very hard to say when that will happen. We know that the time will come; it comecould come quickly. It could not come quickly. As long as the economy is solid, thoughas long as we’re seeing the kind of labor market that we have and reasonably decent growth and inflation moving down, we feel like the right thing to do is to be where we are, with where our policy stance is, and just learn more. And in particular, we feel like we’re going to learn a great deal more over the summer on tariffs. We dowe hadn’t expected them to show up much by now, and they haven’t, and we will see whetherthe extent to which they do over, over coming months. And I think that’s going to inform our thinking, for one thing. In addition, we’ll see how the labor market progresses. So, at some point, it will become clear. I can’t tell you exactly when that will be. And, you know, meanwhile, we’ll be watching, watching the labor market very carefully for signs of weakness and strength and tariffs for signs of, of what’s going to happen there. And, of course, there are many developments ahead, you know, even in the near termdevelopments are expected on tariffs. So I think we, we don’t yet know with any confidence where they will settle out. We have an estimate, and it’s a prettyI think all estimates are now pretty close together. But it’s it’s, yeah, highly uncertain.

Yeah, what you start with is, iswhat’s the effective tariff rate overall? And people are managing to that. But, you know, the, the passthrough of tariffs to consumer price inflation is a whole process that’s very uncertain. You know, as you know, there are many parties in that chain: There’s the manufacturer, the exporter, the importer, the retailer, and the consumer, and each one of those is going to be trying not to be the one to, to pay for the tariff. But together, they will all pay for it togetheror maybe one party will pay it all. But that process is very hard to predict, and we haven’t been through a situation like this, and I think we have to be humble about our ability to forecast it. So that’s why we need to see some actual data to haveto make better decisions. We, we’d like to get some, some more data, and, and, again, in the meantime, we can do that because the economy remains in solid condition.

So you’re right, weand, as is often the case, we have a pretty healthy diversity of views on the Committee. We did have strong support for today’s decision and broad agreement that our policy stance does leave us in a good place. But I would point to two factors, and you mentioned them. The first is just that parties have a diversity of forecasts, and, and they do align with, with wherewith where their dots are. So if you have a higher inflation forecast, you’re going to be less likely to be writing down, you know, more, more cuts. But asremember, as we see more data, we’re going to learn more about where inflation is headed. And that means when it is time to look at, at normalat sort of, at, you know resuming our normalization process, the differences you mayyou see should be smaller because we’ll have seen actual data. Right now, it’s just a forecast in a very foggy time. So that’s the first partis forecast. Secondly, people can look at the same data, and they can evaluate the risks differently, as you know. And that includes, you know, the, the risk of higher inflation, the risk it’ll be more persistent, the risk that the labor market will weakenpeople are going to have different assessments of that risk. So you put that in there, too. So those are the two ways that, thatthe two things, I think, that drive these things. Remember, though, withas I mentioned earlier with uncertainty as elevated as it is, no one holds these rate paths with a lot of conviction. So that’s really where it is. It’s a function of those things, and I think as the data come in, you should see those differences diminish.

So if you just look backward at the data, that, that’s what you would say, but that’s notwe have to be forward looking. And the thing that every forecasterevery outside forecaster and the Fed is saying is that we expect a meaningful amount of inflation to arrive in coming months, and we have to take that into account. So I think a backwardlooking look would, would lead you to a neutral stance. But we, we can’twe have towe have to look at that. And because the economy is still solid, we can take the time to actually see what’s going to happen. It, it’s, you know, thethere’s a range of possibilities on how, how large the, the inflation effects and the other effects are going to be. So we’ll make smarter and better decisions if we just wait a couple of months or however long it takes to get a sense of, of really what, what is going to be the passthrough of inflation and what’rewhat’s going to be the effects on spending and on hiring and all those things.

Okay, from my standpoint, it’sit’s not complicated. What everyone on the FOMC wants is a good, solid American economy with a strong labor market and, and price stability. That’s what we want. We think our policy is well positioned toright now to, to deliver that and, and to be able to respond in a timely way as the data lead us around. The economy’s been resilient, and part of that is our stance, and, again, we think we’rewe’re in a good place on that to respond to significant economic developments. That’s what matters. That is what matters to uspretty much, that’s all that matters to us.

I’mI’m not thinking about that. I’m thinking about this.

Sorry, sorrywith what picking up?

Ah, ah, immigrationso you’re asking immigration?

Yeah, you knowI, I wouldn’t want to speculate. Whatone way to get at that from an economic standpointwe, of course, don’t comment on immigration policy. It’s not ours to make or comment on. But what you see is aan, an unemployment rate that has been really solid and at a low levelnot really increasing. It’s been in ain a good range and well within the range of mainstream estimates of maximum employment. And that means, like, part of that is that labor demand and labor supply are kind of moving down at the same rate. Labor demand is, is softeningyou see that in job creationbut it’s still kind of at a healthy level. And labor supply is, is diminishing because the, the immigration numbers that we see are, are much lower than they were. So thethose two factors, supply and demandthat’s what has kept the, the unemployment rate in a reasonably, you know, stable place.

So the framework review really has two tracks, right? The first track is ouris our policy framework. That, that is reflected in the consensus statement. And we, we’ve said that we would finish that and announce it by the end of the summer. So we’re well along in that process. We’ve had the meetings that we need to have, and we’re now going to be going into [cough]pardon meinto discussions about, you know, specific changes to language. So that’sthat’s the framework part of it. The second part of it is our communications tools and practices [cough]pardon meand that, that part comes next, okay? That’s what we’re going to do in the meetings this fall. Actually, what we did at this meeting, though, is we, we sort of prepared the ground for that. We had awe had a meeting where we talked at a high level about a number of ideas. The SEP is part of ityou know, othermany, many other ideas. It’sit’s sort of how do we think our communications can be improved? There are a number of ideas. People offered a reallyit was a great conversation. Number of ideasbut we’rewe’re going to look at those with staff briefing and a lot of thought in the fall. And I would say, when it comes to changing communications, you know, I would only doI would only support things really that onlyimplement things that have very broad support. And also, you want to be really careful, because I think our communications are pretty well received. They’re not broken, so more is not necessarily betterbut better is better. So we’re going to be looking at ways to doto do things that will improve the clarity of what we do for the benefit of, of the public.

Well, I mean, we’re trying to restore pricethe best thing we can do for thefor the public that we serve is restore price stability. If we can, and we will, restore price stability, meaning 2 percent inflation on a durable, sustainable basisthat and also maximum employmentand if we, we restore those things, that’s the best thing. And that is our goal. The best thing we can do for the American peoplefor, for households and businesses that is the ultimate thing that we can deliver. And they can make their decisions without having to think about inflation all the time. So, in the meantime, we have to keep rates high to keepto get inflation all the way down. They’re not very highlet’s be honest. I would say policy is modestly or moderatelyprobably modestly nowrestrictive. If you look at the economy, it’s not performing as though it were performing under very strict monetary policyvery restrictive monetary policy. So I would say probably modestly restrictiveand so what it will take is, is confidence that inflation is coming down. Now, I would say, without tariffs, that confidence would be building because if youif you see what’s happening with nonhousing services and housing services, which are the other two big pieces other than goods, those are coming down really nicely now. So I think we have to learn a little more about, about tariffs. I don’t knowI don’t know what the right way for us to react will be. I think it’s hard to know with, with any confidence how we should react until we see, really, the size of the effectsthen we can start to make a better judgment. So that’s what we’re doing, and I think we canwe can take the time to do that, because unemployment is 4.2 percent. Wages are moving up. Real wages are moving up at aat a healthy clip now. And inflation is, you know2.3 percent headline inflation over a 12month basis. So it’s a good economy, and a solid economy with decent growth.

I’m notI’m not saying that at all. You know, from our standpoint, what I can say is that the, the U.S. economy is in solid shape. Inflation has come down. The unemployment rate remains at 4.2 percent. As I mentioned, real wages are moving up. It’s a it’s a goodjob creation is at a healthy level. Unemployment, again, as I said, lowlabor force participation at a good place. What we’re waiting for to reduce rates is, is to understand what will happen with, with, really, the tariff inflation. And there’s a lot of uncertainty about that. Every forecaster you can name who, you knowwho is a professional, you know, forecaster with, with adequate resources and forecasts for a living is forecasting, you know, a pretty significanteveryone that I know is forecasting a meaningful increase in inflation in coming months from tariffs because someone has to pay for the tariffs. And it will be someone in that chain that I mentioned: Between the manufacturer, the exporter, the importer, the retailer ultimately, somebody putting it into a, a good of some kind or just the consumer buying itand, you know, all through that, that chain, people will be trying not to be the ones who, who pick up the cost. But, ultimately, the cost of the tariff has to be paid. And some of it will fall on the end consumer. We know that because that’s what businesses saythat’s what the, the data say from pastso we know that’s coming. And we just want to see, see a little bit of that before we make judgments prematurely.

No, I mean, you’remonetary policy has to be forward looking. That is elementary. You’ve got to be lookingI alwayswe always talk about the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We say that over and over and over again, right? So it’s always forward looking. You know, if you knowat the very beginning of the pandemic, you know, we cut rates to zero immediately. Nothing had happened. We just knew that it was going to be really bad, right? So we took very aggressive forward lookingbecause we knew things were going to be unusually difficult. So, of course, this, this is something we, we sort of know is comingwe just don’t know the size of it. And, again, the economy seems to be in solid shape. So the labor market’s not crying out for a rate cut. Businesses, you know, were in a bit of shock after April 2. But you see business sentimentyou talk to business people nowthere’s a very different feeling now that people are working their way through this. And they, they understand how they’re going to go, and it’sit, it feels much more positive and constructive than it did three months ago, let’s say. So, again, we think that our current stance of monetary policy is in a good place.

I don’t see them at all as, as in tension. You know, so I was asked, “Is the Fed overstaffed?” And I said, “No.” You know, and I sort of said as a pun, “Overworked, but not overstaffed.” People do work extremely hard at the Fed, and I know they work hard at Bloomberg, too. [Laughter] Sobut we do. We work hard. But I would say thisso we are careful stewards of public resources, and sometimes you need to show that. So there’ve been several times in our historymodern historywhere the Fed has said, “You know what? We’re going to do a buyout. We’re going togoing to show the public. We’re going to demonstrate that we are good stewards of public resources.” So we thoughtand I, I thought that this is a time when we can. You know, we’vewe grow aboutour headcount has grown at about 1 percent a year. So over the course of a couple of years, we’re going towe’re doing a careful scrub of the Board and all of the Reserve Banks, and we’re going to find 10 percent of employees who can do something else. Where, where we canwe can streamline our operationsand we, we think we can get there in a year, in a couple of years. We think we can do that. And we think thewe think the, thethis is, this is without taking risk to carrying out our critical missions. So this is something you do very carefullythoughtfully. And you do it, again, respecting that we have critical missions to carry out. I’ve had experiencea lot of experiencein my prior careers, you know, with headcount reductions and things like that, and this is how you do it professionally. You do it carefullythoughtfullywith a lot of planning, and you do it over a period of time. And I, I think it’sI think the Fed will be fine. I think no one will notice any decline in our ability to carry out our missions, and I think it’s just us wanting to demonstrate to the public that we are actually good stewards of theirof their resources. We’rewe’re effectively wiping out 10 years of headcount growth with this. So, I mean, we justwe wanted to show that, you knowthat we’re good stewards.

We’re just at the very beginning. As you know, we’re doing a buyout program. We’re going towe’re going to hit that goal. I think many organizations find that they canthat they can do this. You don’t want to do it every year or anything, but you can do it at intervals. And you, you wind up not, you knownot interfering with your ability to perform your jobs.

Yeah, so, you know, we don’twe don’t sit around and debate or really discusswe, we take fiscal policy as fully exogenous. And so we, we actually, you know, really didn’t talk about, about the bill or the contents of it. It’s still evolving. You know, when, when it gets closecloserremember also we have a very, very large economy, and that the effects will be at the margin. And, you know, I, I expect that they’llthey may already be in but they will be in by the next meeting. We’ll make an estimate. But it’s not a major thing; it’s nothing that we discuss. It, it may have been mentioned a couple of timesbut as something that’s coming in. But I think the outcome isyou know, we don’t know the outcome yet thereso, hard to be real specific.

You know, two thingsone, the data we get right nowwe, we can do our jobs. I’m not concerned that we can’t do our jobs. That’s not thethat’s not the point. The point, really, is that we are starting to see, you know, layoffs. And, and important gatherers of data are saying that they’rethey’re having to cut back on the size of their surveys. That’s going to lead to more volatility in the surveys. I think we should take a step back. And, you know, from our standpointand I think the standpoint of businesses and governments and everyonehaving really good data on the state of the economy at any given time is a huge public good. It helps. It doesn’t just help the Fed. It helps the government, it helps Congress, it helps the executive branch. More importantly, really, it helps businesses. They need to know what’s going on in the economy. The United States has been a leader for many, many years in this whole project of measuring and understanding what’s happening in, in our very large and dynamic economy. And I hate to seeI hate to see us cutting back on that because it, it is a real benefit to the general public that people in all kinds of jobs have the best possible understanding of what’s happening in the economy and, and, hence, what’s likely to happen. It’s very hard to measure what’s going on in the U.S. economy. If, if you readthere was a book calledwell, it’s really remarkable how many things you need to understand to estimate U.S. GDP. Very, very difficultand it’s so important that we get it right. I just wouldI just would say it’s not a place toI would want to keep investing in that, you know, for the good of the general public.

You know, the framework goes back tothe framework document goes back to 2012, and it’sit’s the Committee’s document. It’s not like we’re going to invent a brand new way to do things. It’sit’s been an evolving document, so it shouldn’t depend on who the Chair is at all. It should depend on what’s happening in the economy and what the Committee wants to do. So, yeah, it isn’t really tied to any particular Chair, and, you know, we used to renew it every year. Now we do it every five years. Sobut I, I don’t think anybody I’ve never heard anyone raise this issue that, you know, a new Chair might want to come in and go in a completely different direction. I reallyI really don’t think that’s right. But, you know, that’s notnot going to be up to me to decide.

No, not at all. Not in any way.

So, of course, we’re watchinglike everybody else iswhat’s going on. I really don’t have any comment on that. You know, possible that, that we’ll see higher energy priceswhat’s tended to happen is, when there’s turmoil in the Middle East, you may see a spike in energy pricesbut tends to come down. Those things don’t generally tend to have lasting effects on inflation, although, of course, in the 1970s, they famously did, because you had a series of very, very large shocks. But we haven’t seen anything like thatthatlike that now. The U.S. economy is far less dependent on foreign oil than it was back in the 1970s. So, but

So this is the question. The question really is, will AI be more augmenting labor or replacing labor? And I wouldn’tI, Iwe all see those announcements, including one today. I wouldn’t overread a, a couple of data points, because, you know, AI should be creating jobs at the same time. It may be replacingit may be doing both. Anyone who’s done any work with itwith AIwill, will have been a little bit stunned at how capable it is. And it’s just a different thing. So I think this is something that certainly has transformational potentialand probably we’re in the very early stages of it. They say what you’re seeing now compared to what you’ll see in two years is, is going to be very different and even more effective. So I think it’s really hard to know. You know, of course, there are optimists who feel like it’s going to make everybody much more, you knowmuch more productive. And there are those who think it’s going to replace an awful lot of jobs right across the income spectrumyou know, white collar, blue collar, and everything. So I just don’t know. We don’twe don’t have a “house view” on that. But this isthis is going to be a very important question for some time.

It’sit’s certainly a time of real changeyou know, from a geopolitical standpoint, from a trade standpoint, from an immigration standpointyou see this not just here, but everywhere. So there’sthere’s quite a lot going on. It doesn’t change the way we do monetary policy in the near term. I mean, butand it doesn’t change our objectives or what we need to do. And, you know, these, these things are not really our issuesthey’re really issues for elected governments. All of those issues are really for elected governments. But there’s no question it’s a time of, of real, real changeand very hard to see where that goes. Will it bethere have been many, many things written about how it’s going to be a more inflationary time. That’s possible; it’s not guaranteed. You know, AI could cut in a very other direction. AI could make people much more productive andand push in the other direction. I don’t know, though. So you’re right, but, honestly, our focus is, is a much more practical one, and that is, how do we keep inflation low and, and employment high in the near term? That’s really what we’re about.

I don’t, you don’t seeyou don’t really see unemployment going up. You don’t see increased slack, reallyI mean, at the margin. Remember, you’re at 4.2 percent unemployment. That, that was for many, many yearsthat was an extremely low level. It happens to have come up off of an even lower level. As we came out of the pandemic, we were as low as 3.4 percent. But 4.2 percent is probably at the low end of estimates of the longerrun, you know, sustainable level of natural rate of unemployment. So I wouldn’tI guess I wouldn’t agree with that. And also, in terms of wagesyou know, real wages after inflation have been moving up sort of more than was consistent with 2 percent inflation. They’re still moving up at aat a healthy clipand I think much more consistent with 2 percent inflation, given, given a, a reasonable assessment of, of trend productivity. So it’s a pretty good labor market. You know, you’re right that the level of job creation has come down, but so has the supply of workersthe change in the supplythe, the new supply. So you’ve seenyou’ve seen the unemployment rate remain pretty stable at 4.2. It’s been as high as 4.3, but, you know, those arethose are good numbers. So it’s a pretty good labor market. There’sthe thing is, there’sa more concerning thing is, there’s notthere are not a lot of layoffs, but there are not a lot of, of job creation. The numberif you’re out of work, it’sit’s hard to find a job. But very few people are being laid off at this point. So that’san equilibrium we watch very, very carefully, because if there were to be, you know, significant layoffs and the jobfinding rate were to remain this low, you would have a lotyou would have an increase in unemployment fairly quickly. But that hasn’t happened. It really hasn’t happened. We’reso the U.S. economy has defied all kinds of forecasts for it to, to weaken, really, over the last three years, and it’s been remarkable to seejust again and again when people think it’s going to weaken out. Eventually it will, but we don’t see signs of that now.

So there are a number of people on the Committee who wrote down no cuts this year but some cuts next year. So, look, I think, you know, people are writing down their most likely path, right? They’re not saying there’s zero possibility of other things, really. Really, it’sthink of it as the least unlikely path in a situation like this where uncertainty is very high. I, I thinkagain, people writethey write down their, their rate paths, and they do not have, like, a really high conviction that this is exactly what’s going to happen over the next two years. No one feels that way about their rate path. They feel like, “What am I going to write down?” I mean, what would you write down? It’s not easy to, to beto do that with confidence. So I would just say it that way. We don’t rule things in or outcertainly, a hike is not the base case at all. It’s not something people are writing down. But, in the meantime, we do the best we can with these forecasts, and I, I think they’rethey’re representative of, you know, of the different forecasts and different reaction functions that people on the Committee have. So thank you very much. Thanks.