Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dualmandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. While the unemployment rate remains low, it has edged up, job gains have slowed, and downside risks to employment have risen. At the same time, inflation has risen recently and remains somewhat elevated. In support of our goals, and in light of the shift in the balance of risks, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that growth of economic activity has moderated. GDP rose at a pace of around 1½ percent in the first half of the year, down from 2.5 percent last year. The moderation in growth largely reflects a slowdown in consumer spending. In contrast, business investment in equipment and intangibles has picked up from last year’s pace. Activity in the housing sector remains weak. In our Summary of Economic Projections, the median participant projects GDP to rise 1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent next year, a touch stronger than projected in June. In the labor market, the unemployment rate edged up to 4.3 percent in August but remains little changed over the past year at a relatively low level. Payroll job gains have slowed significantly to a pace of just 29,000 per month over the past three months. A good part of the slowing likely reflects a decline in the growth of the labor force due to lower immigration and lower labor force participation. Even so, labor demand has softened, and the recent pace of job creation appears to be running below the “breakeven” rate needed to hold the unemployment rate constant. In addition, wage growth has continued to moderate, while still outpacing inflation. Overall, the marked slowing in both the supply of and demand for workers is unusual. In this less dynamic and somewhat softer labor market, the downside risks to employment appear to have risen. In our SEP, the median projection for the unemployment rate is 4.5 percent at the end of this year and edges down thereafter. Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid2022 but remains somewhat elevated relative to our 2 percent longerrun goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in August and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.9 percent. These readings are higher than earlier in the year, as inflation for goods has picked up. In contrast, disinflation appears to be continuing for services. Nearterm measures of inflation expectations have moved up, on balance, over the course of this year on news about tariffs, as reflected in both market and surveybased measures. Beyond the next year or so, however, most measures of longerterm expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 3.0 percent this year and falls to 2.6 percent in 2026 and to 2.1 percent in 2027. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to 4 to 4¼ percent and to continue reducing the size of our balance sheet. Changes to government policies continue to evolve, and their effects on the economy remain uncertain. Higher tariffs have begun to push up prices in some categories of goods, but their overall effects on economic activity and inflation remain to be seen. A reasonable base case is that the effects on inflation will be relatively short liveda onetime shift in the price level. But it is also possible that the inflationary effects could instead be more persistent, and that is a risk to be assessed and managed. Our obligation is to ensure that a onetime increase in the price level does not become an ongoing inflation problem. In the near term, risks to inflation are tilted to the upside and risks to employment to the downsidea challenging situation. When our goals are in tension like this, our framework calls for us to balance both sides of our dual mandate. With downside risks to employment having increased, the balance of risks has shifted. Accordingly, we judged it appropriate at this meeting to take another step toward a more neutral policy stance. With today’s decision, we remain well positioned to respond in a timely way to potential economic developments. We will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario for the economy. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.6 percent at the end of this year, 3.4 percent at the end of 2026, and 3.1 percent at the end of 2027. This path is ¼ percentage point lower than projected in June. As is always the case, these individual forecasts are subject to uncertainty, and they are not a Committee plan or decision. Policy is not on a preset course. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policymaximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission, and we at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. I look forward to our discussion.

So we did welcome a new Committee member today, as we always do, and the Committee remains united in pursuing our dualmandate goals. We’re strongly committed to maintaining our independence, and beyond that I really don’t have anything to share.

You know, it’s certainly possible. You know, we’re beginning to seewe have begun to see [increased] goods prices showing through into higher inflation. And, actually, the increase in goods prices accounts for most of the increase in inflation or, perhaps, all of the increase in inflation over the course of this year. Those are not very large effects at this point. And we do expect them to continue to build over the course of the rest of the year and into next year. And it’s also possible that there may be effects on employment. But I would say, if you’re looking at why employment is doing what it’s doing, that’s much more about the change in immigration. So the supply of workers has, obviously, come way down. There’s very little growth, if any, in the supply of workers. And at the same time, demand for workers has also come down quite sharply and to the point where we see what I’ve called a “curious balance.” Typically, when we say things are “in balance,” that sounds good. But, in this case, the balance is because both supply and demand have come down quite sharply, now demand coming down a little more sharply because we seewe now see the unemployment rate edging up.

So I don’t think we can say that. What we can say is this: that over the course of this year, we’ve kept our policy at a restrictive leveland people have different views, but a clearly restrictive level, I would say. And we were able to do that over the course of this year because the labor market was in very solid condition, with strong job creation and all those things. I think if you go back to April and now look at the revised jobcreation numbers for May, June, July, and August, you can kind ofI can no longer say that. So what that means is that the risks, whichthe risks were clearly tilted toward inflation. I would say they’re moving toward equality. Maybe they’re not quite at equalitywe don’t need to know that. But we do know that they’ve moved meaningfully toward greater equalitythe risks between the two goalsand that suggests that we should be moving in the direction of neutral. And that’s what we did today.

There wasn’t widespread support at all for a 50 basis point cut today. You know, I think we’ve donewe’ve done very large rate hikes and very large rate cuts in the last five years, and you tend to do those at a time when you feel that policy is out of place and needs to move quickly to a new place. That’s not at all what I feel, certainly now. I feel like our policy has been doing the right thing so far this year. I think we were right to wait and see how tariffs and inflation and the labor market evolved. I think we’re now reacting to the much lower level of job creation and other evidence of softening in the labor market and saying, well, those risks are maybe not fully balanced but moving in the direction of balance now, and so that warrants a change in policy.

Yeah, I think you could think of this, in a way, as a riskmanagement cut, because if you look at the SEP, actually the projections for growth this year and next actually ticked up just a little bit and inflation and unemployment didn’t really move. So what’s different now? What’s different now is that you see a very different picture of the risks to the labor market. You’ve seenyou know, we were looking at 150,000 jobs a month at the time of the last meeting, and now we see the revisions and we see the new numbers. And I didn’tI don’t want to put too much emphasis on payroll job creation, but it’s just one of the things that suggests that the labor market is really cooling off. And that tells you that it’s time to take that into account in our, you know, in our policy.

Yeah, so I would look at it this way. We fully understand and appreciate that we need to remain fully committed to restoring 2 percent inflation on a sustained basis, and we will do that. At the same time, we’ve got to weigh the risks to the two goals. And I would say sincereally, since April, to me the risks of higher and more persistent inflation have probably become a little less. And that’s partly because the labor market has softened, GDP growth has slowed. And so I would just say that the risks there have been less than one might think. And in terms of the labor market, what we’re seeing is, unemployment is still lowit’s still at a relatively low rate, but we’re seeing downside risks.

Well, I wasI was saying that what’s happening in the labor market has more to do with immigration than it has to do with tariffs. That was the question I was answering. So I wouldn’t say that all of what’s happening in the labor market is due to tariffs. I mean, you clearly have a slowing due to immigration. You clearly have a slowing in demand, which is now perhaps more than that in supply. And we know that because the unemployment rate has ticked up. So that’s howthat’s what I meant by that.

Well, I mean, you’re right. It does say we’re going to get to 2 percent inflation in 2028at the end of ’28. But that’syou know, that’s literally how you put the projections together. You’re writing down a rate path which is designed to create, over the course of the SEP, you know, time frame, 2 percent inflation, and maximum employment too. So that’s, that’s all that is. You know, we don’tno one really knows where the economy will be in three years, but the nature of the exercise is to write down policy that you believe would return to the 2 percent goal over theat least by the end of the exercise.

So our expectation, and you can see this consistently through the year, has been that inflation will move up this year, but that thebasically, because of the effects on goods prices from tariffsbut that those will turn out to be a onetime price increase, as opposed to creating an inflationary process. That’s been our forecast. Pretty much everyall the individual forecasts say that. We can’t just assume that, though, right? We have toour job is literally to make sure that that is what happens. And we will do that job. Right now, the situation we’re in is that we see inflationwe continue to expect it to move up. Maybe not as high as we would have expected it to move up a few months ago. The passthrough intoof the tariffs into inflation has been slower and smaller. The labor market has softened. So the case for there being a persistent inflation outbreak is less. And so that’s why we think it’s time for us really to acknowledge that the risks to the other mandate have grown, and that we should move in the direction of neutral. So what will we do? We’ll do what we need to do. But we have two mandates, and we try to balance them. For a long time, our framework says that when our two goals are in tensionthis is quite an unusual situation. How do we decide what to do? Because our tools can’t do two things at once. What we do is we ask, which is farther fromhow far is each from the goal, and how long is it expected to get to the goal? So and then that’swe think about those things, and we seeas I mentioned, we have beenour policy had been really skewed toward inflation for a long time, really. Now we see that there’s downside risk clearly in the labor market. And so we’re moving in a direction of more neutral policy.

So it’s an interesting labor market. And obviously we think it’s appropriate that we reduce our rates so that we become more neutral, which will bewhich, presumably, will be better for the labor market. You see people who are sort of more at the marginsso kids coming out of college and younger people, minoritiesare having a hard time finding jobs. The overall jobfinding rate is very, very low. However, the layoff rate is also very low. So you’ve got a lowa lowfiring, lowhiring environment. And the concern is that if you start to see layoffs, the people who are laid off won’tthere won’t be a lot of hiring going on. So that could very quickly flow into higher unemployment. In a healthier economy, healthier labor market, there would be jobs for those people. But now the hiring rate is very, very low. So that’s been a growing concern over the last few months, and it’s one of the reasons why we think it’s appropriate that we begin to shift our policy focus toward a more balanced one.

So I think we arewe’re in a meetingbymeeting situation, and we’re going to be looking at the data. You know, let me say a word about the SEP, really, here. So we often point this out. What the SEP is, it’s an accumulationa cumulation of the individual projections of 19 people showing what they believe at a particular moment in time to be the most likely path for the economy and, thus, the appropriate path for monetary policy as well. And as you know, we don’twe don’t debate or try to agree on what that is; we just write them down and cumulate them. We do sometimes discuss them. And so we always say we’re not on a preset path, and we really mean that. The actual decisions we make are going to be based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks at the time the decisions are actually made. So you will have seen that we have 10 participants out of 19 who wrote down two or more cuts for the remainder of the year, and 9 who wrote down fewer thanin fact, in a good number of cases no more cuts. So rather than looking atso rather than looking at this as certainty, I would encourage people, as always, to look at the SEP asthrough the lens of probability. And so there arethere are different possible outcomes and likelihoods rather than “this one is certain, and this one isn’t happening.” So that’s what I would say.

You know, it is such an unusual situation. Ordinarily, when the labor market is weak, inflation is low; and when the labor market is really strong, that’s when you’ve got to be careful about inflation. So we have a situation where we have twosided risk, and that means there’s no riskfree path. And so it’s quite a difficult situation for policymakers. And it’s not at all surprising to me that you have a range of views. It’s not so much about having different views for the path of the economy, butit’s partly that, but it’s also partly about what’s the right thing to do in light of thisof the tension between the two goals. How do you weight them? How worried are you about one versus the other? And so it’s natural. I think it would actually be surprising if you didn’t have a pretty wide range of views based, you know, in this kind of highly unusual situation, and we do. But, you know, we get together, we discusswe have a great discussion, and then we decide what to do and we act. But you’re right that it isit’s a wide dispersion of views, and I think that’s understandable and natural in the current situation.

Look, it’s deeply in our culture to doto do our work based on the incoming data and never consider anything else. That’s justeverybody here who’s at the Fed really feels strongly about that way. So, you know, you’ll know it by the way we talk about what we’re doing, by the speeches that people give, by the decisions that we make. You’ll know that we’re just still going to do that. That’s all we do. And we don’twe don’t frame these questions at all or see them in terms of political outcomes. I think when you get to another part of Washington, everything is seen through the lens of, does it help or hurt this political party, this politician? You know, that’s the framework. And I think people find it hard to believe that that’s justthat is not at all the way we think about things at the Fed. We’re taking a longer perspective. We’re trying to, you know, serve the American people as best we can. So I think I think you would be able to tell. I don’tI don’t believe we’ll ever get to that place. You know, I would say we’re doing our work exactly as we always have now, and people are they’re making their arguments, and we’re having, really, a great discussion around these challenging issues. So

You know, I see it as a court case that it would be inappropriate for me to comment on.

So, on the QCEW, the revision that we saw was almost exactly what we expected. It was amazing how close the expectation was. And the reason for that is for the last bunch of quarters, there’s been aalmost a predictable overcount. And I think the, you know, the Bureau of Labor Statistics really does understand this, and they’re working hard to fix it. It’s got to doof course, it has something to do with low response rates. But it’s also got to do with what’s called the birth–death model, because a good amount of job creation happens around new companies, and how many go out of business, how many are founded. And it’s just really hard. You can’t survey for that. You’ve got to have a model that predicts that. And it’s quite difficult to do, especially when the economy is undergoing big changes. And they’ve been working on that and are making progress on it. But, you know, the data we get is still well good enough for us to do our work. To the extent we have issues around data right now, it’s about low response rates. That’s happened all overall over, really. Response rates are just lower to surveys now, both in and out of the government. And it’s no great secret. You know, we want higher response rates, and we need those to have, you know, less volatile data. And the way to get that is to make sure that the agencies that collect the data have sufficient resources to drive higher response rates. It’s not a complicated problem. But that’s what it takes. It’s not a mystery. That’s what it takes. The other thing I’ll say, Edward, is in the case of the job creation, the firstthe response rate is quite low for the first month, or lower for the first month. By the time you get to the second or third month, you’re still collecting responses for that last monthfor that prior month. And you get to the place where the data are much more reliable by the second, and certainly the third, month. So it’s not that we don’t get the datait’s just that we get it a little later.

You know, we have to live life looking through the windshield rather than the rearview mirror, as you know. And all I can tell you is we see where we are now, and we take appropriate action. And we took that appropriate action today.

Well, I hadn’t say that I thought a ¼ point would make a huge difference to the economy. But you’ve got to look at the whole path of rates, right? And the market has alreadyhas already been baking in expectations. I mean, our market works through expectations, right? So I think our policy path really does matter. And I think it’s important that we use our tools to support the labor market when we do see signs like that. I did mention that, you know, you see minority unemployment going up, you see younger peoplepeople who are more vulnerable economically, more susceptible to economic cycles. That’s one of the reasons, in addition to just overall lower payroll job creation, that shows you that at the margin the labor market is weakening. I would also point to labor force participation. Some part of the significant decline in labor force participation over the last year has probably been cyclical in nature, rather than just the usual aging process. So we put all those together, and we see that the labor market is softening, and we don’t need it to soften any more, don’t want it to. So we use our tools. And, you know, it starts with a 25 basis point rate cut, but weyou know, the market’s also pricing in a rate path. I’m not blessing what the market’s doing at all. I’m just saying it’s not just one action.

I wouldn’t say that. I mean, you’re right. Those are twowe’re getting unusually large amounts of economic activity through the AI buildout and corporate investment. I don’t know how long that will go on. No one does. In terms of spending, you saw the consumer spending numbers were well above expectations, and that may well be skewed toward higherearning consumers. There’s a lot of anecdotal evidence to suggest that. Nonetheless, it’s spending. So, I mean, I think the economy isyou know, it’s moving along. Economic growth is going to be 1½ percent or better this year, maybe a little better. Forecasts have been coming up, as you can see. So labor market is unemployment is low, butyou know, downside risksbut it’s still a low unemployment rate. So that’s how we see it.

Iof course, I’m not going to comment on anything the secretary says or, really, any other officer says. So in terms of reform at the Fed, you know, we justwe just went through a lengthy and I think very successful process of updating our monetary policy framework. I would say there’s a lot of work going on behind the scenes around the assets we have in the Federal Reserve System and at the Board. Are they the right size? We’re actually going through a 10 percent head count reduction through the whole Fed, including the Board and all the Reserve Banks. Employment at the Fed at the end of that will be basically at the same level it was more than 10 years ago. So we will have had zero job growth for more than a decade when we’re finished with that, and I think we’ll probably do more than that. So I think we’re certainly open to constructive criticism and ways to do our jobs better.

We’re certainly open to, you know, to always trying to do better.

So there’s great uncertainty around that. I think my viewwhich is also a bit of a guess, but widely shared I thinkis that you are seeing some effects, but it’s not the main thing driving it. And so a particular focus on young people coming out of college and, yeah, there may be something there. It may be that companies or other institutions that have been hiring younger people right out of college are able to use AI more than they had in the past. That may be part of the story. It’s also part of the story, though, that, you know, job creation more broadly has slowed down. The economy has slowed down. And so it’s probably a number of things. But, yeah, it’s probably a factor. Hard to say how big it is.

Well, if youyou can take goodsjust sort of the broad goods category, and last year goods inflation was negative. If you go back 25 years, that was the typical thing was that goods inflation wasgoods prices generally went down, even adjusting for quality. So that was not the case during the pandemic, of course. Goods inflation went very high. But we had essentially returned to zero or slightly negative inflation. Now, I think goods inflation over the course of the past year is 1.2 percent, which doesn’t sound like a lot, but it’s a big change. So we thinkI mean, analysts have different views, but we think it’s contributing, you know, 0.3 or 0.4, something like that, to the current core PCE inflation reading, which is 2.9 percent. So it’s contributing. What seems to be happening is that, you know, the tariffs are notmostly not being paid by exporters, mostly being paid by, really, the companies that sit between the exporter and the consumer. So if you buy something and you sell it through retail or you use it to make a product, you’re probably taking a lot of those costs on and not able to pass it fully along to the consumer yet. That appears to be what we’re seeing. All of those companies and entities in the middle, they’ll tell you that they have every intention of passing that through in time, but they’re not doing that now. To the consumer, the passthrough has been pretty small. It’s been slower and laterslower and smaller than we thought. But the evidence is very clear that there’s some passthrough.

I have nothing new on that for you today.

So there’s 12 voters19 participants, of whom 12 vote, as you know, on a rotating basis. So no one voter, you know, can reallythe only way for any voter to really move things around is to be incredibly persuasive. And the only way to do that, in the context in which we work, is to make really strong arguments based on the data and one’s understanding of the economy. That’s really all that matters. And that’s how it’s going to work. And I think that is the way the institutionthat’s in the DNA of the institution. That’s not going to change.

Our response is we’re going to do everything we can to use our tools to achieve the goals that Congress has given us. And we’re not going to get distracted by anything. So I think that’s what we’re going to do. We’re just going to keep doing our jobs.

So I think there’s quite a wide assessment that the situation has changed with respect to the labor market, whereas we could still sayand did sayin July, at the time of the July meeting, that the labor market was in solid condition, and we could point to 150,000 jobs per month, and many other things. I think that the new data that we’ve hadand it’s not just payrolls, it’s other things as wellsuggests that there really is meaningful downside risk. I said there was downside risk then, but I think that that downside risk is now a reality. And there’s clearly more downside risk. So I think that wasI think that’s broadly accepted. And so that meant different things for different people. You know, some wrote downalmost everyone wrote down support of this cut. And some supported more cuts, and some didn’t, as you will see from the dot plot. So it’s just the waythat’s just the way it is. I mean, people haveyou have people who take this work very seriously, think about it all the time, do their work, discuss it with our colleagues. You know, we endlessly discuss this between ourselves. And then we have a meeting where we put it all out on the table. And this is what you get. And you’re right, there is athere’s a range of views in the dots. And I think that’s, like I said, very unsurprising given the quite unusualhistorically unusual nature of the challenges that we face. But let’s remember, though, the unemployment rate’s 4.3 percent. The economy is growing at 1½ percent. So it’s not a bad economy, or anything like that. We’ve seen much more challenging economic times. But from a policy standpoint, the standpoint of what we’re trying to accomplish, it’s challenging to know what to do. There are, as I mentioned earlier, there are no riskfree paths now. It’s not incredibly obvious what to do. So we have to keep our eye on inflation. At the same time, we cannot ignore and must keep our eye on maximum employment, which isthose are our two equal goals. And you will see that there are just a range of views on what to do. Nonetheless, we came together today at the meeting and acted with a high degree of unity.

You know, so there are many different ways to calculate it and none of them is perfect, but, you know, it’s clearly come way down. There areyou could say it’s somewhere between zero and 50,000, and you’d be right or wrong. I mean, there’s just many different ways to do it. So wherever it was150,000, 200,000 a few months agoit’s come down quite significantly. And that’s because a verya lower amount of people are joining the labor force. The labor force is really not growing much at this point. And that’s a lot of where the supply of labor was coming from over the last threetwo or three years, so we’re not getting that now. We’re alsowe’ve gotten much lower demand. You know, it’s interesting that supply and demand have really come down together so far, except now we do have inflationsorry, unemployment ticking up outside, just one tick outside of the range where it’s been for a year. Four point three percent is still a low level, but, you know, I think this level ofthis speedy decline in both supply and demand has certainly gotten everyone’s attention.

Well, that would be great. We’d love that to happen. So I don’t know that you see a big tension there, but it’s gratifying to see that economic activity is holding andyou know, so it’s a good, a good bit from consumption. It looks like consumption was stronger than expectedwhat we got earlier this week, I guess. And also we’re getting, you knowa fairly narrow sector is producing a lot of economic activity, which is the AI buildout and, you know, business investment. So, you know, we watch all of it. And I would say weyou know, we did move up, the median for growth for this year actually moved up in the SEP between the June and September SEPs, soand, really, the inflation and labor market didn’t change much. It’s really the risks that we’re seeing to the labor market that were the focus of today’s decision.

You know, housing is an interestsensitive activity, so it’s at the very center of monetary policy. When the pandemic hit and we cut rates to zero, the housing companies were incredibly grateful and it was reallythey said that was the only thing that kept them going was that we cut so aggressively and provided credit and things like that, and they were able to finance because we did that. The other side of that is when inflation gets high and we raise ratesand you’re right, it does burden the housing industry. And so rates have come down a bit, and as that happens we don’t set thewe don’t set mortgage rates, but our policy rate changes do tend to affect mortgage rates. And that has been happening. And that’ll, of course, raise demand, lower borrowing rates for builders, will help, you know, get builderswill help supply. And so some of that should happen. I think most analysts think that it would have to be pretty big changes for it to matter a lot for thebig changes in rates to matter a lot for the housing sector. And, you know, the other thing is byyou know, by achieving maximum employment and price stability, that’s a strong economy. That’s a good economy for housing. And then the last thing I’ll say is, you know, there’s a deeper problem here that is not a cyclical problem that the Fed can address, and that just is a pretty much nationwide housing shortage, or a lot of places in the country just don’t have enough housing for people. And, you know, all of the areas around metropolitan areaslike Washington, for exampleare very built up, and so you’re having to build farther and farther out. And thatso that’s where it is.

Well, I think we’reyou know, we’re cutting the size of our balance sheet quite marginally now. As you know, with the balance sheet, we’re still in an abundant reserves condition. And we’ve said that we would stop somewhat above asomewhat above an amplereserves level. That’s where we are. And we’reyou know, we’re getting closer to that. We’re monitoring it very carefully. We don’t think that that has, at all, significant macroeconomic effects. These are pretty small numbers moving around inside a giant economy. You know, the level of runoff is not very large. So I wouldn’t attribute macroeconomic consequences to that, at this point.

So, you know, we’re aware of that. I think default rates have been kind of ticking up. And we do watch that. They’re not at a levelI don’t believe they’re at a level where, overall, they’re, you know, terribly concerning. But it is something that we watch. You know, lower rates should support economic activity. I don’t know that one rate cut will have, you know, a visible effect on that. But over time, you know, a strong economy with a strong labor market is what we’rewhat we’re aiming for, and stable prices. So that should help.

So, as you said, shorterterm inflation expectations have tended to respond to nearterm inflation, so if inflation goes up, inflation expectations will predict that it takes just a little while to get back down. Fortunately, throughout this period, longerterm inflation expectations, both breakeven in the markets and almost all of the longerterm surveysMichigan being a bit of an outlier latelyhave been just rock solid in terms of, you know, running at levels that are consistent with 2 percent inflation over time. So we don’t take that for granted. We actually assume that our actions have a real effect on that, and that, you know, we need to, you know, continually show and also mention/discuss our commitment to 2 percent inflation. And so you’ll hear us doing that. But, you know, we’reas I mentioned, it’s a difficult situation because we have risks that are both affecting the labor market and inflation. Those are our two goals. And so we have to balance those two. When they’re both at risk, we have to balance them, and that’s really what we’re trying to do. I don’t the latter part of your question was about independence. You know, I don’t see market participantsI don’t see that that’s something they’re factoring in right now in terms of setting interest rates. Thanks very much.