Good afternoon. I will begin with one overarching message: We at the Fed understand the hardship that high inflation is causing. We are strongly committed to bringing inflation back down, and we’re moving expeditiously to do so. We have both the tools we need and the resolve that it will take to restore price stability on behalf of American families and businesses. The economy and the country have been through a lot over the past two and a half years and have proved resilient. It is essential that we bring inflation down if we are to have a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. From the standpoint of our congressional mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability, the current picture is plain to see: The labor market is extremely tight, and inflation is much too high. Against this backdrop, today the Federal Open Market Committee raised its policy interest rate by ¾ percentage point and anticipates that ongoing increases in that rate will be appropriate. In addition, we are continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet. I’ll have more to say about today’s monetary policy actions after briefly reviewing economic developments. Overall economic activity edged down in the first quarter, as unusually sharp swings in inventories and net exports more than offset continued strong underlying demand. Recent indicators suggest that real GDP growth has picked up this quarter, with consumption spending remaining strong. In contrast, growth in business fixed investment appears to be slowing, and activity in the housing sector looks to be softening, in part reflecting higher mortgage rates. The tightening in financial conditions that we’ve seen in recent months should continue to temper growth and help bring demand into better balance with supply. As shown in our Summary of Economic Projections, FOMC participants have marked down their projections for economic activity, with the median projection for real GDP growth running below 2 percent through 2024. The labor market has remained extremely tight, with the unemployment rate near a 50year low, job vacancies at historical highs, and wage growth elevated. Over the past three months, employment rose by an average of 408,000 jobs per month, down from the average pace seen earlier in the year but still robust. Improvements in labor market conditions have been widespread, including for workers at the lower end of the wage distribution as well as for African Americans and Hispanics. Labor demand is very strong, while labor supply remains subdued, with the labor force participation rate little changed since January. FOMC participants expect supply and demand conditions in the labor market to come into better balance, easing the upward pressures on wages and prices. The median projection in the SEP for the unemployment rate rises somewhat over the next few years, moving from 3.7 percent at the end of this year to 4.1 percent in 2024, levels that are noticeably above the March projections. Inflation remains well above our longerrun goal of 2 percent. Over the 12 months ending in April, total PCE prices rose 6.3 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core prices rose 4.9 percent. In May, the 12month change in the consumer price index came in above expectations at 8.6 percent, and the change in the core CPI was 6 percent. Aggregate demand is strong, supply constraints have been larger and longer lasting than anticipated, and price pressures have spread to a broad range of goods and services. The surge in prices of crude oil and other commodities that resulted from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is boosting prices for gasoline and food and is creating additional upward pressure on inflation. And COVIDrelated lockdowns in China are likely to exacerbate supply chain disruptions. FOMC participants have revised up their projections for inflation this year, particularly for total PCE inflation given developments in food and energy prices. The median projection is 5.2 percent this year and falls to 2.6 percent next year and 2.2 percent in 2024. Participants continue to see risks to inflation as weighted to the upside. The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, especially on those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. We are highly attentive to the risks high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. Against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving economic environment, our policy has been adapting, and it will continue to do so. At today’s meeting, the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by ¾ percentage point, resulting in a 1½ percentage point increase in the target range so far this year. The Committee reiterated that it anticipates that ongoing increases in the target range will be appropriate. And we are continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheetwhich plays an important role in firming the stance of monetary policy. Coming out of our last meeting in May, there was a broad sense on the Committee that a ½ percentage point increase in the target range should be considered at this meeting if economic and financial conditions evolved in line with expectations. We also stated that we were highly attentive to inflation risks and that we would be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook. Since then, inflation has again surprised to the upside, some indicators of inflation expectations have risen, and projections for inflation this year have been revised up notably. In response to these developments, the Committee decided that a larger increase in the target range was warranted at today’s meeting. This continues our approach of expeditiously moving our policy rate up to more normal levels. And it will help ensure that longerterm inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2 percent. As shown in the SEP, the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds rate is 3.4 percent at the end of this year, 1.5 percentage points higher than projected in March and 0.9 percentage point above the median estimate of its longerrun value. The median projection rises further to 3.8 percent at the end of next year and declines to 3.4 percent in 2024, still above the median longerrun value. Of course, these projections do not represent a Committee plan or decision, and no one knows with any certainty where the economy will be a year or more from now. Over coming months, we will be looking for compelling evidence that inflation is moving down, consistent with inflation returning to 2 percent. We anticipate that ongoing rate increases will be appropriate; the pace of those changes will continue to depend on the incoming data and the evolving outlook for the economy. Clearly, today’s 75 basis point increase is an unusually large one, and I do not expect moves of this size to be common. From the perspective of today, either a 50 basis point or a 75 basis point increase seems most likely at our next meeting. We will, however, make our decisions meeting by meeting, and we will continue to communicate our thinking as clearly as we can. Our overarching focus is using our tools to bring inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keep longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Making appropriate monetary policy in this uncertain environment requires a recognition that the economy often evolves in unexpected ways. Inflation has obviously surprised to the upside over the past year, and further surprises could be in store. We therefore will need to be nimble in responding to incoming data and the evolving outlook. And we will strive to avoid adding uncertainty in what is already an extraordinarily challenging and uncertain time. We are highly attentive to inflation risks and determined to take the measures necessary to restore price stability. The American economy is very strong and well positioned to handle tighter monetary policy. To conclude: We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. And I look forward to your questions.

So, as you know, we always aim to provide as much clarity as we can about our policy intentions subject to the inherent uncertainty in the economic outlook, because we think monetary policy is more effective when market participants understand how policy will evolve, when they understand our objective function, our reaction function. And in the current highly unusual circumstances with inflation well above our goal, we think it’s helpful to provide even more clarity than usualagain, subject to uncertainty in the outlook. And I think over the course of this year, financial markets have responded and have, generally, shown that they understand the path we’re laying out. Of course, it remains data dependent. And so that’s what we generally think about guidance, and that’s why we offer it. And, of course, when we offered thatwhen I offered that guidance at the last meeting, I did say that it was subject to the economy performing about in line with expectations. I also said that if the economy performedif data came in worse than expected, then we would consider moving even more aggressively. So we got the CPI data and also some data on inflation expectations late last week, and we thought for a while, and we thought, well, this is the appropriate thing to do. So then the question is, what do you do? And do you wait six weeks to do it at the next meeting? And I think the answer is, that’s not where we are with this. So we decided we needed to go ahead, and so we did. And that’s reallythat’s really how we made the decision.

Sure. So if you take a step back, what we’re looking for is compelling evidence that inflationary pressures are abating and that inflation is moving back down. And we’d like to see that in the form of a series of declining monthly inflation readings that’s what we’re looking for. And, by this point, we had actually been expecting to see clear signs of at least inflation flattening out and, ideally, beginning to decline. We’ve said that we’d be data dependent, focused on incoming data, highly attentive to inflation risksthe things that I mentioned to Howard moments ago. So contrary to expectations, inflation again surprised to the upside. Indicatorssome indicators of inflation expectations have risen, and projections of [inflation] this year have moved up notably. So we thought that strong action was warranted at this meeting, and today we delivered that in the form of a 75 basis point rate hike, as I mentioned. So the point of it, really, is this: We’ve been moving rates up expeditiously to more normal levels, and over the course of the seven months since we pivoted and began moving in this direction, we’ve seen financial conditions tighten, and appropriately so. But the federal funds rate, even after this move, is at 1.6 percent. So, again, the Committee is moving rates up expeditiously to more normal levels, and we came to the view that we’d like to do a little more frontend loading on that. So I think that the SEP gives you the levels that people think are appropriate at given points in time. This was really about the speed in which we would get there. So, as I mentioned, 75 basis points todayI said the next meeting could well be about a decision between 50 and 75. That would put us, at the end of the July meeting, in that rangein that more normal range, and that’s a desirable place to be, because you begin to have more optionality there about the speed with which you would proceed going forward. Just talking about the SEP for a second: What it really says is that Committee participants widely would like to see policy at a modestly restrictedrestrictive level at the end of this year. And that’s six months from now, and so much data [can accrue] and so much can happen, so remember how highly uncertain this is. But so that is generally a range of 3 to 3½ percent. That’s where people are, and that’s what they want to see, knowing what they know now and understanding that we need to bewe need to show resolve but also be flexible [in responding] to incoming data as we see it. If things are better, we don’t need to do that much, and if they’re not, then we either do that much or possibly even more. But in any case, it will be very data dependent. Then you’re looking at next year, and what you’re seeing is, people see morea bit more tightening and a range of maybe 3½ to 4 percent. And that’s generally what people see as the appropriate path for getting inflation under control and starting back down and getting back down to 2 percent. So 75 basis points seemed like the right thing to do at this meeting, and that’s what we did.

Sure. So the question really is, how high does the rate really need to go? And this isthe estimates on the Committee are in that range of 3½ to 4 percent. And how do you think about that? Well, you can think about the longerrun neutral rate, you can compare it to that, and we think that’s in the mid2s. You can look, frankly, at broader financial conditions. You can look at asset prices, you can look at the effect they’re having on the economy, rates, asset prices, credit spreadsall of those things go into that. You can also look at the yield curve and ask, all along the yield curve, where is the policy rate? So for much of the yield curve now, real rates are positive. That’s not true at the short end. At the short end of the yield curve in the early years, you don’t have realyou have negative rates still. So that really is one data pointit’s one part of financial conditions. So I thinkI have to look at it this way: We move the policy rate. That affects financial conditions. And that affects the economy. We have, of course, waysrigorous ways to think about it, but, ultimately, it comes down to, do we think financial conditions are in a place where they’re having the desired effect on the economy? And that desired affect is, we’d like to see demand moderating. Demand is very hot still in the economy. We’d like to see the labor market getting better in balance between supply and demand, and that can happen [as a result of developments coming] both from supply and demand. Right now, there’sdemand is substantially higher than available supply, though, so we feel that there’s a role for us in moderating demand. Those are the things we can affect with our policy tools. There are many things we can’t affect, and those would be, you know, the thingsthe commodity price issues that we’re having around the world due to the war in Ukraine and the fallout from that, and also just all of the supplyside things that are still pushing upward on inflation. So that’s really how I thinkhow I think about it.

I think it’s certainly in the range of plausible numbers. I think we’ll know when we get there really. I mean, honestly, though, that would beyou would have positive real rates, I think, and inflation coming down by then. I think you’d have positive real rates across the [yield] curve. I think that the neutral rate is pretty low these days. So I would think it would, but you know what? We’re going to find that out empirically. We’re not going to be completely model driven about this. We’re going to be looking at this, keeping our eyes open, and reacting to incoming data both on financial conditions and on what’s happening in the economy.

So if you look at a broad range of inflation expectationsso you’ve got the public, you’ve got surveys of the public and of experts, and you’ve also got market based. And I think if you look across that broad range of data, what you see is that expectations are still in the place, very much in the place, where shortterm inflation is going to be high but comes down sharply over the next couple of years. And that’s really where inflation expectations are. And also, as you get away from this episode, they get back down close to 2 percent. And so this is really very important to usthat that remain the case. And I think if you look for most measures, most of the time, that’s what you see. If we even see a couple of indicators that bring that into question, we take that very seriously. We do not take this for grantedwe take it very revisednonetheless, it was quite eyecatching, and we noticed that. We also noticed that the index of common inflation expectations at the Board has moved up after being pretty flat for a long time, so we’re watching that, and we’re thinking, “this is something we need to take seriously.” And that is one of the factors, as I mentionedone of the factors in our deciding to move ahead with 75 basis points today was what we saw in inflation expectations. We’re absolutely determined to keep them anchored at 2 percent. That was one of the reasonsthe other was just the CPI reading.

We’re going toI’ll just say, we’re going to react to the incoming data and appropriately, I think. So I wouldn’t want to put a number on what that might be. The main thing is to get rates up, and then pretty soon, we’ll be in an area where we’reI think as you get closer to the end of the year, you’re in a range where you’ve got restrictive policy, which is appropriate. Fortyyear highs in inflationwe think that policy is going to need to be restrictive, and we don’t know how restrictive. So I think that’s how we’ll take it.

To take your second question first, yes. I mean, I think we’re again, we’re going, we’re resolved to take this on, but we’re going to be flexible in the implementation of it. Sorryand your [first] question was [about] guidance. So, again, the overall exercise is that we try to beprovide as much clarity about our policy intentions as we can, because we think that makes monetary policy work better. There’s always a tradeoff, because you have to live with that guidance, and so you do it, and it helps a lot of the time. I, frankly, think this year has been a demonstration of how well it can work. With us having really just done very little in the way of raising interest rates, financial conditions have tightened quite significantly through the expectations channel, as we’ve made it clear what our plans are. So I think that’s been a very healthy thing to be happening. And I would hope that ourit’s always going to beany guidance that we give is always going to be subject to things working out about as we expect. And, in this particular situation, you know, we’re looking for something specific, and that is progress on inflation. We want to see progress. We want to seeinflation can’t go down until it flattens out, and that’s what we’re looking to see. And if we don’t see that, then that’s the kind of thing that willeven if we don’t see progress for a longer period, that could cause us to react. But we will. Soon enough, we will be seeing some progress at some point. And we’ll react [as] appropriate to that, too. But I would like to think, though, that our guidance is still credible, but it’s always going to be conditional on what happens. This is an unusual situation, to get, you know, some data late in, during blackout, pretty close tovery close to our meeting. Very unusual to [have] one that would actually change the outcome. So I’ve only seenin my 10yearsplus here at the Fed, I’ve only seen something like that, even close to that, one or two times. So I don’t think it’s something that’ll come up a great deal.

The second part I didn’t get.

Right. So, what we want to see is a series of declining monthly readings for inflation, and we’d like to see inflation headed down. But, you knowand right now, our policy rate is well below neutral, right? So, soon enough, we’ll have our policy rate let’s assume the world works out about like the SEP says: The policy rate will be up where we think it should be. And then the question would be: Do you slow down? Does it make you you’ll be making these judgments about, is it appropriate now to slow downfrom 50 to 25, let’s sayor speed up? So that’s the kind of thinking we’ll be doing, and, again, we’re lookingultimately, we’re not going to declare victory until we see a series of these, really see convincing evidence, compelling evidence, that inflation is coming down. And that’s what I mean bythat’s what it would take for us to say, “Okay, we think this job is done.” Because we sawand, frankly, we saw last yearinflation came down over the course of the summer and then turned right around and went back up. So I think we’re going to be careful about declaring victory. But ouragain, the implementation of our policy is going to be flexible and sensitive to incoming data.

Again, I think thatI do think that our objective, and this is what’s reflected in the SEP, but our objective, really, is to bring inflation down to 2 percent while the labor market remains strong. I think that what’s becoming more clear is that many factors that we don’t control are going to play a very significant role in deciding whether that’s possible or not. And there I’m thinking, of course, of commodity prices, the war in Ukraine, supply chain [developments], things like that, where we reallythe monetary policy stance doesn’t affect those things. But having said that, there is a path for us to get thereit’s not getting easier; it’s getting more challenging because of these external forcesand that path is to move demand down, and you have a lot of surplus demand. Take, for example, in the labor market. So you have two job vacancies, essentially, for every person actively seeking a job, and that has led to a real imbalance in wage negotiating. You could get to a place where that ratio was at a more normal level, and you wouldn’tyou would expect to see those wage pressures move back down to a level where people are still getting healthy wage increases, real wage increases, but at a level that’s consistent with 2 percent inflation. So that’s a possibility. And you could say the same thing about some of the product markets where there’s just excess capacity and really where the strong demand has gone intosorry, where they’re capacity constrained, right? So you have, effectively, what we think of as a vertical supply curve or close to it. So demand comes in, and it’s very strong, and it shows up in higher pricesnot higher quantities, not more cars, because they can’t make the cars because they don’t have the semiconductors. So in principle, that could work in reverse. When demand comes down, you could seeand it’s not guaranteedbut you could see prices coming down more than the typical economic relationships that you see in the textbooks would suggest, because of the unusual situation we’re in on the supply side. So there’s a pathway there. It is not going to be easy, and thereagain, it’s our objective, but, as I mentioned, it’s going to depend to some extent on factors we don’t control.

So you’re right. In the SEP, we have unemployment going up to 4 pointthe median is 4.1 percentof course, [there is] a range of actual forecasts. And I would characterize that, if you were to get inflation down to, you know, on its way down to 2 percent and the unemployment rate went up to 4.1 percent, that’s still a historically low level. We hadn’t seenwe hadn’t seen rates, unemployment rates below 4 percent until a couple years ago forwe’d seen it for, like, one year in the last 50. So the idea that3.6 percent is historically low in the last century. So a 4.1 percent unemployment rate with inflation well on its way to 2 percentI think that would beI think that would be a successful outcome. So we’re not looking to have a higher unemployment rate. But I would say that I would certainly look at that as a successful outcome.

We’re notagain, we’re not, we don’t seek to put people out of work, of course. We never think, “Too many people are working, and fewer people need to have jobs.” But we also think that you really cannot have the kind of labor market we want without price stability. And we have to go back and establish price stability so we can have that kind of labor market, and that’s a labor market where workers are getting wage increasesmaybe the workers at the lower end of the spectrum are getting the biggest wage increases, as they were before the pandemicwhere participation is high, where there’s lots of job opportunities, where it’s just a reallyI mean, the labor market we had before the pandemic wasthat’s what we want to get back to. And you see disparities between various groups at historic lows. We’d love to get back to that place. But, to get thereit’s not going to happen with the levels of inflation we have. So we have to restore that, and it really is in service, in the medium and longer term, of the kind of labor market we want and hope to achieve.

Not trying to induce a recession now. Let’s be clear about that. We’re trying to achieve 2 percent inflation consistent with a strong labor market. That’s what we’re trying to do. So let me talk about that sentence. Clearly, it’s our goal to bring about 2 percent inflation while keeping the labor market strong, right? And that’s kind of what the SEP says. The SEP has inflation getting down to 2, a little above 2 percent in 2024, with unemployment at 4.1 percent. And this is a strong labor marketthis is a good labor market. And, as I mentioned, there are pathways to do it. But those pathways have become much more challenging due to factors that are not under our control. Again, thinking here of the fallout from the war in Ukraine, which has brought a spike in prices of energy, food, fertilizer, industrial chemicals, and also just the supply chains more broadly, which have been larger and longer lasting than anticipated. So the sentence that we deleted said that we believe that appropriate monetary policy, effectively alone, can bring about the result of 2 percent inflation with a strong labor market. And so much of it is really not down to monetary policy. It just didn’tthe sentence isn’tit kind of says on its face that monetary policy alone can do this. And that’s notthat just didn’t seem appropriate, so we took the sentence out.

So we’re, of course, watching very, very carefully for that and looking at the retailthe big store numbers and all that kind of thing. And so Ibut I think the fair summary of what we see is, you see continuing shifts in consumption, you see some things gettingsales going down, but overall spending is very strong. The consumer’s in really good shape financially. They’re spending. There’s no sign of a broader slowdown that I can see in the economy. People are talking about it a lotconsumer confidence is very low. That’s probably related to gas prices and also just stock prices to some extent for other people. But that’s what we’re seeing. We’re not seeing a broad slowdown. We see job growth slowing, but it’s still at quite robust levels. We see the economy slowing a bit but still growth levelshealthy growth levels.

It would be hard to watch anything much more closely than we watch consumer spending, but we watch everything. We watch business fixed investment, which actually has softened a bit. And we watchwe’re responsible for watching everything. Consumption is 60some percent of the economy, twothirds of the economy, so, naturally, we spend a lot of time on that. And, again, there’s a lot going onthere are a lot of flows back and forthbut, ultimately, it does appear that the U.S. economy is in a strong position and well positioned to deal with higher interest rates.

So thewe’re responsible for inflation in the law. And inflation means headline inflation. So that’s our ultimate goal. We, of course, like all central banks do, look very, very carefully at core inflation because it isit’s a much better predictor, and it’s muchit’s a much better predictor of where inflation is going, and it’s also more relevant to our tools. As I mentioned, the parts that don’t go into core are mostly outside the scope of our tools, so we look at that. But it’sthe current situation is particularly difficult because of what I mentioned about expectations. We can’t affect, reallyI mean, the energy prices are set by global commodity prices. And most of foodnot all of it, but most food prices are pretty heavily influenced by global commodity prices, too. Also other things. So we can’t really have much of an effect. But we have to be mindful of the potential effect on inflation expectations [coming] from headline [inflation readings]. So it’s a very difficult situation to be in, and we again, we can’t do much about the difference between [headline and core inflation rates due to] the elements that make up headline that are not in core.

The SEP is of one piece. It reflects all of the economic readings. It also reflects the 75 basis point increase. This is important. So people had that in hand when theywhen their SEPs were submitted. So it’sin other words, it’s not in addition to what’s in the SEP. The SEPeveryone’s SEP reflects their thinking about this rate increase and what’s going forward.

So I think the role that we can playmaybe the way to get at this is to say that the role that we can play is around demand, right? And we’ll be able to seethe areas that we can affect are those associated with excess demand, and we’ll be able to see our effect on, for example, job openings in real time. And that would tell us what’sthat would tell us about wages. Wages are not principally responsible for the inflation that we’re seeing, but, going forward, they would be very important, particularly in the service sector. Sorry, I’m not sure I’m getting to your question.

There’s always a risk of going too far or going not far enough, and it’s going to be a very difficult judgment to make, or maybe notmaybe it’ll be really clear. But we’reand we’re quite mindful of the dangers. But I will say, the worst mistake we could make would be to fail, whichit’s not an option. We have to restore price stability. We really do, because everythingit’s the bedrock of the economy. If you don’t have price stability, the economy’s really not going to work the way it’s supposed to. It won’t work for peopletheir wages will be eaten up. So we want to get the job done. This inflation happened relatively recently. We don’t think that it’s affecting expectations in any kind of fundamental way. We don’t think that we’re seeing a wage–price spiral. We think that the public generally sees us as very likely to be successful in getting inflation down to 2 percent, and that’s critical. It’s absolutely key to the whole thing that we sustain that confidence. So that’s how we’re thinking about it.

So, clearly, people don’t like inflationa lot. And many people are experiencing it, really, for the first time, because we haven’t had anything like this kind of inflation in 40 years. And it’s really something people don’t like. And they’re experiencing that, and that’s showing up in theirin surveys and in all kinds of ways. And we understand that, and we understand the hardship that people are experiencing from high inflation, and we’re determined to do what we can to get inflation back down. So that’s really what we’re saying. We’re notI’m notclearly, it’s an incredibly unpopular thing, and it’s very painful for people. I guess what I’m saying is, the question, the really critical question from the perspective of doing our job is making sure that the public does have confidence that we have the tools and will use them and they do work to bring inflation back down over time. It will take some time, we think, to get inflation back down, but we will do that.

So, as I mentioned, I think, in my opening statement, inflation has startedit started off in quite narrow, very directly pandemicrelated areas, and it’s spread now broadly across the economy and into the services sector as well. It was really in the goods sector at the beginning. And, particularly, you’re seeing in travel now, if you’ve flown on a plane latelyplanes are very full, and plane tickets are very expensive. Some of that will be pass through of energy prices, but it’sso you’re experiencing services inflation. Shelter inflation is high. So the questionand then you see the Cleveland measure going up, and many other measures are going up. So it’s a time when we’re not seeing progress and we want to see progress, and that’s really another part of why we did what we did today and why the SEP looks like it does. We see it as appropriate to get the policy rate up to restrictive levels, which would be, in the thinking of the Committee, somewhere in the range of 3 to 3½ percent by yearend. And then after that, you see what the rest of the SEP says. So I hope that’s responsive to your question.

So I think what’s in the SEP would certainly meet that test. If you seeyou’re looking at getting back down to almost a 2 percent inflation by 2024, and the unemployment rate is still as low as 4.1 percent. That would beI would call that as meeting that test. Do I still think that we can do that? I do. I think there’sI think there’sI don’t want to be the handicapper here. I justthat is our objective, and I do think it’s possible. Like I said, though, I think that events of the last few months have raised the degree of difficulty, created great challenges. And, again, the answer to the question, can we still do itthere’s a much bigger chance now that it’ll depend on factors that we don’t control, which is, fluctuations and spikes in commodity prices could wind up taking that option out of our hands. So we just don’t know, but we’re focused onvery, very focused on getting inflation back down to 2 percent, which we think is essential for the benefit of the public and also to put us on a path back to a sustainably strong labor market like the one we had before the pandemic.

Sure. So, as I mentioned, financial conditions have tightened over the last seven months, and that’s a good thing, we think. But the federal funds rate, even after this increase, is at 1.6 percent. So it’s hard to see how that is too high of a rate. And even if we did anotherso we’re going to get here by the end of the summer, somewhere in the 2s probably. Still, that’s still a low rate. So that’s not a rate that is calculated to bring a recession on. And we’llby then, we’ll have seen a whole lot more data. As I mentioned a couple times, the Committee’s views are around a modestly restrictive stance, which will be in the 3 to 3½ percent range by the end of this year, but that’s conditioned on that being the appropriate thing to do. If we see data going in a different direction, it’ll be reflected in our policy, as you see today. We’ll be watchingif things go in a direction we don’t expect, then we’re going to adapt. And I would say, this is a highly uncertain environmentextraordinarily uncertain environment. So, again, we’ll be determined and resolved, but flexible.

Sorry, what was your question on QT?

So, of course, we’ve been looking very carefully and hard at why inflation picked up so much more than expected last year and why it proved so persistent. We it’s hard to overstate the extent of interest we have in that question morning, noon, and night. But you have to understand the context. Forreally, the context is this: For decades before the pandemic and the reopening, you had a world where inflation was dominated by disinflationary forces such as declining population or aging demographics, let’s call it that, globalization enabled by technology, other factors, low productivity. So and that’s how all the models work is, decades and decades of datathey look at that. It’s a very flat Philips curve world, and the supply shocks tend to be transient, right? So we have now experienced an extraordinary series of shocks, if you think about it: the pandemic, the response, the reopening, inflation, followed by the war in Ukraine, followed by shutdowns in Chinathe war in Ukraine potentially having effects for years here. So we’re aware that a different set of forces are driving the economywe have been, obviously, for quite a while. But this is a differentthese forces are different. Inflation is behaving differently, and, in our thinking, it really is a question of very strong demand. But you couldn’t get this kind of inflation without a change on the supply side, which is there for anybody to see, which is these blockages and shortages and people dropping out of the labor force and things like that. So that’s how we’re looking at it. And we’ve done a lot of work internally on, and thinking about, what all that means. You don’tthe thing is, you don’t know whether those forces areto what extent are they going to be sustained? In other words, will we go back to a world where it looks a little more like the old world, or are we really going to be in a world where major supply shocks go on and on? The history is, you see these waves of supply shocks, as you did in the ’70s, and then they go away, and sort of there’s a “new normal,” and things settle down. But, honestly, we don’t know what that’s going to be. In the meantime, we have to find price stability in this new world and maximum employment in this new world where, clearly, inflationary forces areyou’re seeing them everywhere. Again, if you look around the world at where inflation levels are, it’s absolutely extraordinary. It’s not just here. In fact, we’re sort of in the middle of the pack, although I think we have, of course, a different kind of inflation than other people have, partly because our economy is stronger and more highly recovered. So that’s what we’re doing. We’ve done a lot of introspection and work on that andsorry, on QT, we’ve communicated really clearly to the markets about what we’re going to do there. Markets seem to be okay with it. We’re phasing inTreasury [security] issuance is down quite a lot, quite a lot from where it’s been, so I have no reason to thinkmarkets are forward looking, and they see this coming. I have no reason to think it will lead to illiquidity and problems. It seems to be kind of understood and accepted at this point.

Sure. So rates were very lowa good place to start is that rates were very, very low for quite a while because of the pandemic and the need to do everything we could to support the economy when unemployment was 14 percent and the true unemployment rate was well higher than that. And that was arates are low, and now they’re coming back up to more normal, or above, levels. So, in the meantime, while rates were low and while demand was really high, obviously demand for housing changed from wanting to live in urban areas to some extent to living in singlefamily homes in the suburbs, famously. And so the demand was just suddenly much higher. And we saw prices moving up very, very strongly for the last couple of years. So that changes now, and rates have moved upwe’re well aware that mortgage rates have moved up a lotand you’re seeing a changing housing market. We’re watching it to see what will happen. How much will it really affect residential investment? Not really sure. How much will it affect housing prices? Not really sure. It’sI mean, obviously, we’re watching that quite carefully. You would think over timeI mean, so there’s a tremendous amount of supply in the housing market of unfinished homes, and as those come on linewhereas the supply of finished homes, inventory of finished homes that are for sale, is incredibly low, historically low. So it’s still a very tight market. So prices may keep going up for a while even in a world where rates are up. So it’s a complicated situation. We watch it very carefully. I would say if you’re a homebuyer, somebody or a young person looking to buy a home, you need a bit of a reset. We need to get back to a place where supply and demand are back together and where inflation is down low again and mortgage rates are low again. So this will be a process whereby weideally, we do our work in a way that the housing market settles in a new place and housing availability and credit availability are at appropriate levels. So thank you very much.