Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. The economy has made good progress toward our dualmandate objectives. Inflation has eased from its highs without a significant increase in unemployment. That’s very good news. But inflation is still too high, ongoing progress in bringing it down is not assured, and the path forward is uncertain. I want to assure the American people that we’re fully committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent goal. Restoring price stability is essential to achieve a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. Over the past two years, we’ve significantly tightened the stance of monetary policy. Our strong actions have moved our policy rate well into restrictive territory, and we’ve been seeing the effects on economic activity and inflation. As labor market tightness has eased and progress on inflation has continued, the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals are moving into better balance. I will have more to say about monetary policy about monetary policy, after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a solid pace. GDP growth in the fourth quarter of last year came in at 3.3 percent. For 2023 as a whole, GDP expanded at 3.1 percent, bolstered by strong consumer demand as well as improving supply conditions. Activity in the housing sector was subdued over the past year, largely reflecting high mortgage rates. High interest rates also appear to have been weighing on business fixed investment. The labor market remains tight, but supply and demand conditions continue to come into better balance. Over the past three months, payroll job gains averaged 165,000 jobs per month, a pace that is well below that seen a year ago but still strong. The unemployment rate remains low at 3.7 percent. Strong job creation has been accompanied by an increase in the supply of workers. The labor force participation rate has moved up, on balance, over the past year, particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years, and immigration has returned to prepandemic levels. Nominal wage growth has been easing, and job vacancies have declined. Although the jobstoworkers gap has narrowed, labor demand still exceeds the supply of available workers. Inflation has eased notably over the past year but remains above our longerrun goal of 2 percent. Total PCE prices rose 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in December; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.9 percent. The lower inflation readings over the second half of last year are welcome. But we will need to see continuing evidence to build confidence that inflation is moving down sustainably toward our goal. Longer term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. We’re highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we’re strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. Over the past two years, we have raised our policy rate by 5¼ percentage points, and we’ve decreased our securities holdings by more than $1.3 trillion. Our restrictive stance of monetary policy is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation. The Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. We believe that our policy rate is likely at its peak for this tightening cycle and that, if the economy evolves broadly as expected, it will likely be appropriate to begin dialing back policy restraint at some point this year. But the economy has surprised forecasters in many ways since the pandemic, and ongoing progress toward our 2 percent inflation objective is not assured. The economic outlook is uncertain, and we remain highly attentive to inflation risks. We’re prepared to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for longer if appropriate. As labor market tightness has eased and progress on inflation has continued, the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals are moving into better balance. We know that reducing policy restraint too soon or too much could result in a reversal of the progress we’ve seen on inflation and ultimately require even tighter policy to get inflation back to 2 percent. At the same time, reducing policy restraint too late or too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering any adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. The Committee does not expect that it will be appropriate to reduce the target range until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longerrunlongerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. To conclude: We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you. I look forward to our questions.

Sorrysay that last part again.

Okay. So, what are we looking for to get greater confidence? Let me say that we have confidence. We’rewe’re looking for greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably down to 2 percent. Implicitly, we do have confidence, and it has been increasing, but we want to get greater confidence. What do we want to see? We want to see more good data. It’s not that we’re looking for better data. It’swe’re looking at continuation of the good data that we’ve been seeing, and a good example is inflation. So we have six months of good inflation data. The question really is, that six months of good inflation datais it sending us a true signal that we are, in fact, on a patha sustainable path down to 2 percent inflation? That’s the question. And the answer will come from some more data that’s also good data. It doesn’tit’s not that the sixmonth data isn’tisn’t low enough. It is. It’s just a question of, can we take that with confidence that we’re moving sustainably down to 2 percent? That’s really what we’re thinking about. In terms of, of growth, we’ve had strong growth. I mean, if you take a step back, we’ve had strong growthvery strong growth [in real GDP] last yeargoing right into the fourth quarter. And yet we’ve had a very strong labor market, and we’ve had inflation coming down. So I thinkwhereas a year ago, we, we were thinking that we needed to see some softening in economic activitythat hasn’t been the case. So I think we, we look atwe look at stronger growth. We don’t look at it as a problem. I think, at this point, we want to see strong growth. We want to see a strong labor market. We’re not looking for a weaker labor market. We’re looking for inflation to continue to come down, as it has been coming down for the last six months.

No, I think it’sI, I would say it, it seemsit seems to be the likely case that, that we will achieve that confidence, but we have to achieve it, and we haven’t yet. And soI mean, it’s a good story. We have six months of good inflation [readings]. But you canand you know thisyou can look behind those numbers, and you can see that a lot of it’s been coming from goods inflation, for example, and goods inflation running significantly negative. It’s a reasonable assumption that, over time, goods inflation will flatten outprobably approximate zero. That would mean the services sectors would have to contribute more. So, in other words, what we care about is the aggregate numbernot so much the composition. But we, we just need to see more. That’s where we are, as a Committee. We need to see more evidence that sort of confirms what we think we’re seeing and that tells us that we are ongives us confidence that we’re on, on a path toa sustainable path down to 2 percent inflation.

So, as you know, almost every participant on the Committee does believe that it will be appropriate to reduce rates and for, forpartly for the reasons that you say. You know, we, we feel like inflation is coming down. Growth has been strong. The labor market is strong. We’rewhat we’re trying to do is identify a place where we’re really confident about inflation getting back down to 2 percent so that we can then begin the process of dialing back the restrictive level. So, overall, I thinkI think people do believeand, as you know, the median participant wrote down three rate cuts this year. But I think to get to that place where we feel comfortable starting the process, we need some confirmation that inflation is, in fact, coming down sustainably to 2 percent.

Well, Ilook, I think, as you know, we consult the range of Taylor rules and, and nonTaylor kind of rules. We consult them regularly. They’re in our, our Tealbook, and, and they’re in all the materials that we look at. But, you know, I don’t think we’ve ever been at aat a place where we werewhere we were setting policy by them. And theredepending on the rule, it will tell you different things. There are many different formulations. Another way to think about it is, implicitly, isso, in theory, of course, real rates go up ifholding all else equalas inflation comes down. But that doesn’t mean we can mechanically adjust policy as real ratessorryas inflation comes down. It doesn’t mean that at all, because, for one thing, we, we don’t knowwe, we look at more than just the fed funds rate. We look atbroadlyfinancial conditions. But, in addition, we don’t know with great confidence where the neutral rate of interest is at any given time. But that also doesn’t mean that we wait around forto see, you know, the economy turn down, because that would be too late. So we’re really in a riskmanagement mode: of managing the riskas I mentioned in my opening remarksmanaging the risk that we move too soon and move too late. And I think to move, which iswhich is where almost everyone on the Committee isis in favor of, of moving rates down this yearbut the timing of that is going to be linked to our gaining confidence that inflation is on a sustainable path down to 2 percent.

Yeah, I, I don’t know that we’ve worked out the particulars statement language and that kind of thing. I would just say, if you look atyou know, look at where, where 12month inflation is, and it’s, you know, it’s still well abovecore is 2.9 percent, for example12monthwhich is way down from where it was. Very, very positive developmentvery fast declineand, and, you know, the, the case is likely that it will continue to come down. So, so that’s wherethat’s where it is. But we’re, you know, we’re wanting to see, you know, more data.

Yes. So let me say that we’re not looking for that. That’s not something we’re looking for. But, yes, if you think about, you knowin, in the base case, the economy is performing wellthe labor market remains strong. If we saw an unexpected weakening in, incertainly in the labor market, that would certainly weigh on cutting sooner. Absolutely. And if we saw inflation being stickier or higher or those sorts of thingswould argue for moving later. In the base case, though, where, where the economy is healthy and we have, you know, we have ongoing growthsolid growthwe have a strong labor marketwe have inflation coming downthat’s what people are writing their SEP [submissions] around. And in that case, what we’re saying is, based on that, we think we can and should take advantage of that and, and be careful as we approach that question of when to begin to dial back restriction.

So we’re notwe’re not really at that stage. You know, we’re we’rethere was no proposal to cut rates. Some people did, you know, talk about their view of the rate path. I would point you to the [December 2023] SEP as, as, you know, as good evidence of where people are, although it isit is [now] one [FOMC meeting] cycle later. So, you know, we’re notwe’re not at a place of, of really working out those kinds of details, because we weren’t actively considering, you know, amoving, moving the federal funds rate down. I will say, there is athere is a wide disparitya healthy disparityof views, and you see that in public, public statements, in the minutes, and the transcripts when they’re released every five years. So we do have a healthy set of differences, and I think that’s actually essential for making good policy. We’re also able to reach agreement, generally, because we listen to each other we, we compromise. And even though not everybody loves what we do, they’re able tofor the most partable to join in. To me, that’s a wellfunctioning public institution.

Including?

Yeah. Well, so we’re notyou know, it’s not the pandemic, so we can actually rely on more, more traditional forms. People are working. They’re getting wages, and, and the economy has largely reopened and is broadly normalizing, as you see. So I wouldn’t say we’re looking at that, that sort of more innovative data as much. You know, you point to rents. So, of course, we follow the, the components of inflation very carefully. Which would be: Goods inflationI talked about that a little bit; you mentioned housing inflation. So the question is, when will these lower market rents find their way into measured rents, as measured, measured in PCE inflation? And we think that’s coming, and we know it’s coming. It’s just a question of when and, and how big it’ll be. Sobut that’s in, in everyone’s forecast, I would say. So that willthat will help. But at the same time, we think goods inflation will probablyit’s been giving a lot of disinflation to the effortand probably that declines over time, but it may well have some, some more time to run. You know, thesethe supply chains are not perfectly back to where they were. In addition, it takes time for the, the healing process to get into prices. So there may be still a tailwind. We’ll find out with, with that. So we look at the things that relate to our mandate very carefully, andas you would imagine.

No, I wouldn’tI wouldn’t say we’ve achieved that. And I, I think we havewe have a ways to go. Inflation is stillyou know, core inflation is still well above target on a 12month basis. Twelve months is our, our target, certainly. I’m encouraged, and we’re encouraged by the progress. But, you know, we’re, we’re notwe’re not declaring victory at all at this point. We think we have a ways to go.

So it’sI think you, you do see in the interestsensitive parts of the economyyou do see, for example, housing. You see the effects. You do. Your, your second question, though, really, I think, is important, and that is, a lot of this has come througha lot of the disinflationary process has come through the healing of supply chains and also of the labor market. So you’ve seen theyou know, that other set of factors is really different from other cycles and has brought that working with tighter, tighter policy, which has enabled the supply side to recoverI think is that, that mixture has been behind what has enabled this. So, nowe really do think that we’re having an effect broadly across the economy. I would point to the interestsensitive parts of the economy as well as spending, generally. But it’s ait’s a joint story. It’s a complicated story.

It’sso I think it’s, it’sof course, you know that it’s not something you can identify with any precision. But if youa standard approach would be to take the nominal rate5.3 percent, let’s sayand subtract sort of a, a forward measure of inflation. If you do thatand there are many, many ways to calculate the neutral ratebut that’s one I like to do. And, you know, you’re going to get to something that is materially above mainstream estimates of neutralityof the neutral rateyou will. Andbut at the same time, you look at the economy, and you say, “This is an economy that grew 3.1 percent last year.” And, and you say, “What does that tell you about the neutral rate?” What’s happening, though, is, the supply side has been recovering in the middle of this. So that, that won’t go on forever. So a lot of the growth we’re seeing is notisit isn’t just a tug of war between, between interest rates and demand. You’re getting, you know, more activity because of theof labor market healing and supply chains healing. So I think the question is, when that peters out, I think the, the, you know, the, the restriction will show up probably more, more sharply.

I, I think the labor market by many measures is at or nearing normalbut not totally back to normal. And you pointed to one or more of them. So I think, you know, job openings are not quite back to where they were. Wageswage increases, rather, are not quite back to where theyto where they would need to be in the longer run. I, I would look at it this way, though. The, the economy is broadly normalizing, and so is the labor market. And that process will probably take some time. So wage setting is something that happensit’s, it’syou know, probably will take a couple of years to get all the way back. And that’s okay. That’s okay. But we do seeyou saw today’s ECI readingyou know, the evidence is that, that wage increases are still at a healthy levelvery healthy levelbut they’re gradually moving back to levels that would be more associatedgiven, given assumptions about productivity, are more typically associated with 2 percent inflation. It’s, it’s an ongoing processa healthy one and, and, you know, I think we’re, we’re moving in the right direction.

I think the, the labor market isitI don’t know if I’dit’s rebalancing. Clearly, that thethere was a fairly severe imbalance between demand for workers and supply at the beginning of the pandemic. So we lost several million workers at the beginning of the pandemic from people dropping out of the labor force. And then when the economy reopenedyou remember 2021you had a severe labor shortage, and it was justit was everywherepanic on the part of businessescouldn’t, couldn’t find people. So, what’s happened iswe expected laborthe labor supplylabor market to come back quickly, and it didn’t. And 2022 was a disappointing year, and, you know, we were kind of thinking, “Well, maybe we won’t get it back.” And then 2023, we did, as you knowso labor force participation came back strongly in ’23, and so did immigration. Immigration came to a halt during the pandemic. Soand so those two forces have significantly lowered the temperature in the labor market to what is still a very strong labor market. It’s still a good labor market for wages and for finding a job, but it’s getting back into balance, and that’s what we want to see. And, you know, one great way to look at that is what’s happening with, with wage increases. And you see it now across the, the major things that wethat we track. It isn’t every quarter, but, overall, there’s a clear trendstill at high levels, but back down to wherewhat would be consistent with, with where we were before the pandemic and with 2 percent inflation.

No, I think that that is a riskthe risk that inflation would, would reaccelerate. I think the, the greater risk is that it wouldthat it would stabilize at a level meaningfully above 2 percent. That’s, that’s, to me, more likely. Of course, ifif inflation were to surprise by moving back up, that wouldwe would have to respond to that, and that would that would be a surprise at this point. But I have to tell you, that’s why we keep our options open here and why we’re not, you know, rushing. So I, I think both of those are risks, but I think the more likely risk is the one that I mentioned, which is, you’ve had six good monthsvery good monthsbut what, what’s really going to “shake out” here? You know, wherewhat will when we look back, what will we see? Will, will inflation have dipped and then come back up? Are the last six months flattered by factors that arethat are oneoff factors that won’t repeat themselves? We don’t think so. We don’tyou know, that’s not what we think, but that’s the question we are asking. We have to ask [that], and we want to get comfort on that.

We’ll just have to see. Yeah. We’llwe look at those. Last year was awas a, a surprise.

So, how toyour first questionhow to describe where we are? So I guess I would just say thisexecutive summary would be that growth is solid to strong over the course of last year. The labor market3.7 percent unemployment indicates that the labor market is strong. We’ve had just about two years now of, of unemployment under 4 percent. That hasn’t happened in 50 years. So it’s a good labor market. And we’ve seen inflation come down. We’ve talked about that. So we’ve got six months of good inflation data and an expectation that there’s more to come. So this is athis is a good situation. Let’s be honest. This is athis is a good economy. But what’s the outlook? That’s looking in the rearviewthe outlookwe do expect growth to moderate. Of course, we have expected it for some time, and it hasn’t happened, but we do expect that it will moderate as supply chain and labor market normalization runs its course. The labor market is rebalancing, as, as I mentioned. Job creation has slowed. The base of job growth has narrowed. And, of course, 12month inflation is, is above target and getting, you know, getting down closer to target. It’s not guaranteed, but we do seem to be getting on track for that. So those are the risks and, and questions we have to answer. But, overall, this is a pretty good picture. It, it is a good picture. Your second question wassorry.

So wethe thing is, we’re not looking for inflation to tap the 2 percent base once. We’re looking for it to settle out over time at 2 percent. And the same thing is true if we have a month or two of lowerand we have that nowof, of inflation that’s annualized at aat a lower levelthat wouldn’t be good. We’re notyou know, we’re not looking to have inflation anchor below 2 percent. We’re looking to have it anchor at 2 percent. So if we do face those circumstances, then we’ll have to deal with that. I thinkI think as of now, you know, the, the question, whichwe want to take advantage of this situation and finish the job on inflation while keeping the labor market strong.

So I’ll point you to that language on your first question. We, we included that language in the statement to signal clearly thatwith strong growth, strong labor market, inflation coming downthe Committee intends to move carefully as we consider when to begin to dial back the restrictive stance that we have in place. So if you take that to the current contextcurrent context, we’re going to be data dependent. We’re going to be looking at this meeting by meeting. Based on the meeting today, I would tell you that I don’t think it’s likely that the Committee will reach a level of confidence by the time of the March meeting to identify March as the time to do that. But that’s, that’s to be seen. So I wouldn’t callyou know, when you saywhen you ask me about “in the near term,” I’m hearing that as March. I would say I don’t think that’sthat’s, that’s probably not the most likely case or what we would call the base case. And your second question is

You know, that’s going to depend on the data. The whole thing is, this is going to depend on the data. We’re going to be looking at the economic data as it affects the outlook and the balance of risks. And we’re going to make our decisions based on that. And it could wind upyou know, we’ll, we’ll have another SEP at the March meeting, and, and people will write down what they think. But, in the end, it’s really going to depend on how the economy evolves. We talked about, there are risks that would cause us to go slowerfor example, stronger inflationmore, more persistent inflation. There are risks that would cause us toif they happenthat would cause us to go faster orand sooner. And that would be a weakening in the labor market or, for that matter, very, very persuasive lower inflation. Those are the kinds of things. So we’re justwe’re just going to be reacting to the data. That’s the that’s really the only way we can do this.

So this is a really interesting question. And I thinkmy, my own view isI think if you look, look back to the pandemic, you, you saw a spike in productivity as workers were laid off, and, and activity didn’t decline as fast. And then you saw a deep trough of productivity. And then, over the lastyou saw high productivity last year, in ’23. I think we’re, we’re basically in the throes of getting through the pandemic economy. And the question will be, what, what is it that has changed theyou know, the productivity tends to be based on, you know, fundamental aspects of our economy. Is thereis there a casewill it be the case that we come out of this more productive on a sustained basis? And I don’t know. I don’t know. What would it take? It would takeyou know, people talk about AI, but I wouldmy guess is that we may shake out and be back where we were, because I don’tI’m not sure I seework from home doesn’t seem like it’s a big productivity increase. Or AI, artificial intelligence generative it may be, but probably not in the short runprobably, maybe in the longer run. So I’m notI’m not seeing why it would, but, you know, rightyou know, right now I would say that productivity is kind of what falls out of the, the broader forces that are driving people in and out of the labor force and, and activity returning and supply chains getting fixed.

That’s one way to look at it. Yeah.

So when we think about, you knowour, our statutory goals are maximum employment and price stability, and that’s what we’re targeting. We’re not targeting housing price inflation, the cost of housing, or any of those things. Those are very important things for people’s lives. But they’re notyou know, those are not the things we’re targeting. We’re also well aware that when we cut rates at the beginning of the pandemic, for example, the housing, housing industry was helped more than any other industry. And when we raise rates, the housing industry can be hurt, because it’s a very interestsensitive sector. On top of that, we have longerrun problems with the availability of housing. You know, we have a, a builtup set of cities, and, and, you know, people are moving further and further out. So there’sthere hasn’t been enough housing built. And these are notthese are not things that we have any tools to address. But, you know, where it comes into play very specifically in our work is inflation, which is a combination. It’s, it’s really rental inflation. You’re taking owners’ equivalent rent and then actual rent paid by tenants. And you’re, you’re running that through the CPI calculation. Or the PCE [inflation] calculationthe one we look at. And what that’s telling you is that market rents are increasing at a much lower rate or even being flat and that that will show up in inflation over time. It has to as long as that remains the case.

My response is what I started with, which is that our, our jobthe job Congress has given us is price stability and maximum employment. Price stability is absolutely essential for people’s lives, most importantly forwell, not most importantlymost, mostly for people at the lower end of the income spectrum who are living at the edgesat the margins. And so someonefor someone like that, high inflation in thein the necessities of liferight away, you’re in trouble, whereas even middleclass people have some, you know, some scope to absorb higher costs. So we have to getit’s our job. It’s what society has asked us to do, is to get inflation down, and the tools that we use to do it are interest rates. So that’s how we think about that.

Yes. So I would start by saying that balance sheet runoff so far has gone very well. And as the process has continued, you know, we’re getting to that time where questions are beginning to come into greater focus about the pace of runoff and all that. So at this meeting, we did have some discussion of the balance sheet, and we’re planning to begin in depth discussions of balance sheet issues at our next meeting in March. So those, those questions are all coming into scope now, and we’re focusing on them. But we’re, we’re at the beginning of that process, I would say.

Yes, we dowe see those as independent tools. And so they don’tfor example, if you’reif you’re normalizing policy, you might be reducing rates but continuing to run off the balance sheet. In both cases, that’s normalization, but from a strict monetary policy standpoint, you could say we’re loosening along with tightening. So that, that could happen. It’s not something we’re planning or thinking about, but right now, we’re thinking about getting to a place wherewe’re going to see the balance sheet runoff to continue. We’re watching it carefully, and, as I said, we’llwe’ll be looking into that as a Committee starting in March.

I’m, I’m not in a position to put a number on it. I’m just going to sayand it’s not that we don’t have any confidence. We, we have growing confidence, but not to the point where wewhere we feel likeit’s a highly consequential decision to start the process of, of dialing back on restriction. And we want to get that right, and we feel like the strong economy, strong labor market, inflation coming downit gives us the ability to do that. We think that’s the best way we can serve the public, because, ultimately, we, we’ve made a lot of progress on inflation. We just want to make sure that we do get the job done in a sustainable way. That’s how we’re thinking about it. In terms of when that’ll be, you know, that, that’ll all come out of our communications, and, you know, we won’twe won’t keep that a secret.

Not a decision that we’ve made, but I, I wouldn’t think we’d, we’d bewe wouldn’t be taking a position that it’s got to go to zero. I mean, if itif it were to stabilize at a different levelbut that’s, that’s not a decision that we’ve made. That’s, that’s what we’ll be talking about at the March meeting. A whole range of issues will be briefed up, and the Committee will get intoget into all of the issues that will be arising over the course of the next, let’s say, year or so.

I don’t have a stance on that. It’s not something I’m focused on. [We’re] focused on doing our jobs. We havethis year is going to be a highly consequential year for, for the Fed and for monetary policy. And we’re, all of us, very buckled down, focused on doing our jobs.

So Iyou know, we’re going to dowe’ll update our, our inflation forecasts at the next meeting. You referred to the December meeting. That’s, that’s, you know, three months old [by March], so it might be lower now, given the data we’ve gotten. So, look, as I mentioned, we’re going to be reacting to the data. If, if we getif we get very strong inflation data and it, it kicks back up, then it’llthen we’ll go slower or later or both. If we got really good inflation data soon, that would matter for both thethat, that would tell us that, that we could go sooner and perhaps go faster. So we’re just going to bebut, of course, we’ll weigh that with all the other factors. We’re setting policy based on the totality of, of the data.

Well, I think if weif we came to the view that, that inflation werethat the sixmonth inflation numbers, which are very close to 2 [percent], were, in “PCE world”if we came toif that’sif we thought that is really where we’re going to be, then, yes, our policy would be in a different place. It would. But, you know, that’s the whole point is, we’re trying to get comfortable and gain confidence that that is wherethat inflation is on a sustainable path down to 2 percent or toward 2 percent.

Yeah, so it’s beenit’s been interesting that confidence surveys have been weak, at a time when unemployment has been lowvery low, historically lowfor a couple of years. Andbut, nonetheless, that’s been the case. And we’ve asked ourselves why that is. And, you know, one obvious answerwe don’t pretend to have perfect wisdom on thisisbut one obvious answer is that the price level is high. So prices went up much more than 2 percent for yearper year for a couple of years. And people are going to the store, and they’re paying much more for the basics of life than they were two years agothree years ago. And they’re not happy about it. And it’s fine that inflation is coming down, but the pricethe prices they’re paying are still high. So that, that is whatthat, that has to be some part of why people are unhappy. And they’re, they’re right to be unhappy. You know, this is why we need to keep price stability. It’s why we need to do our jobsso that people don’t have to deal with things like this. In terms of [surveys]you’re right. In, in recent, recent surveys, a couple ofyou’ve seen a couple of significant increases in, in consumer confidence or, or happiness with the economy. I guess that’s a good thing. That canthat can support spendingcan support economic activity. There’s some evidence of that. But it isit is a fact that we have seen, you know, a meaningful increase. I think levels of confidence are still maybe not as high as they’ve been at various times. But it’sthey certainly have come up.

Well, yes. I’m, I’m a big believer thatyes. So we, we do meet with outside groups who come from all different parts of the economy. And I always feel like youI mean, I spent most of my life in the private sector looking at companiesindividual companiesindividual management teamsand then building out from that. And so, starting with GDP data isand working into what’s actually affecting people’s lives isis challenging. It’s very hard. So I, I really like anecdotal data. In addition, as you know, the 12 Reserve Banks have really the best network of anyone. In all their Districts, they’re talking to, you know, not just the business community, but the educational, medical, all, allyou know, nonprofit community. They have arms into all of that. And so when they come backthat’s what goes into the Beige Book. But they come back, and what each Reserve Bank president does is, during the outlook goaround, they’ll say, “In my District . . .” And they’ll talk about 100 conversations theynotthey won’t talkthey, they will give you input, based on 100 conversations that they’ve had with people of all different walks. And it’sI personally find it very helpful in understanding what’s going on. And also, I think you hear things before they show up in the data sometimes.

Yes. I mean, if youif you look back at the lastnot this Beige Book, but the one before, it was morethere was a lot of “slower activity.” I think that, that what you’re hearing now is, is, things are picking up a bit. You’re hearingnot, not in every District and not every, every person that we talk to, but you’reoverall, it feels like you’re hearing things picking up at the margin. So that’s what comes through.

I’m not so worried about that. You know, it’sagain, we’ve had inflation come down without a slow economy and without, you know, important increases in, in unemployment, and there’s no reason why we should want to get in the way of that process, if it’s going to continue. So I, I amyou know, I thinkI think declining inflationcontinued declines in inflation are, are really the main thing we’re looking at. Of course, we want the labor market to remain strong, too. We don’t have a growth mandate. We’ve got a, a maximumemployment mandate and a, a pricestability mandate, and those are the two things we look at. Growth only matters to the extent it influences our achievement of those twoof those two mandates. Thank you very much.