Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. As we approach the end of the year, it’s natural to look back on the progress that has been made toward our dual mandate objectives. Inflation has eased from its highs, and this has come without a significant increase in unemployment. That’s very good news. But inflation is still too high, ongoing progress in bringing it down is not assured, and the path forward is uncertain. As we look ahead to next year, I want to assure the American people that we’re fully committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent goal. Restoring price stability is essential to achieve a sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all. Since early last year, the FOMC has significantly tightened the stance of monetary policy. We’ve raised our policy interest rate by 5¼ percentage points and have continued to reduce our securities holdings at a brisk pace. Our actions have moved our policy rate well into restrictive territory, meaning that tight policy is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation, and the full effects of our tightening likely have not yet been felt. Today, we decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to reduce our securities holdings. Given how far we have come, along with the uncertainties and risks that we face, the Committee is proceeding carefully. We will make decisions about the extent of any additional policy firming and how long policy will remain restrictive based on the totality of the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that growth of economic activity has slowed substantially from the outsized pace seen in the third quarter. Even so, GDP is on track to expand around 2½ percent for the year as a whole, bolstered by strong consumer demand as well as improving supply conditions. After picking somewhat over the up somewhat over the summer, activity in the housing sector has flattened out and remains well below the levels of a year ago, largely reflecting higher mortgage rates. Higher interest rates also appear to be weighing on business fixed investment. In our Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), Committee participants revised up their assessments of GDP growth this year but expect growth to cool, with the median projection falling to 1.4 percent next year. The labor market remains tight, but supply and demand conditions continue to come into better balance. Over the past three months, payroll job gains averaged 204,000 jobs per month, a strong pace that is nevertheless below that seen earlier in the year. The unemployment rate remains low at 3.7 percent. Strong job creation has been accompanied by an increase in the supply of workers. The labor force participation rate has moved up since last year, particularly for individuals aged 25 to 54 years, and immigration has returned to pre pandemic levels. Nominal wage growth appears to be easing, and job vacancies have declined. Although the jobs to workers gap has narrowed, labor demand still exceeds the supply of available workers. FOMC participants expect the rebalancing in the labor market to continue, easing upward pressures on inflation. The median unemployment rate projection in the SEP rises somewhat from 3.8 percent at the end of this year to 4.1 percent at the end of next year. Inflation has eased over the past year but remains above our longer run goal of 2 percent. Based on the consumer price index and other data, we estimate that total PCE prices rose 2.6 percent over the 12 months ending in November and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 3.1 percent. The lower inflation readings over the past several months are welcome, but we will need to see further evidence to build confidence that inflation is moving down sustainably toward our goal. Longer term inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. As is evident from the SEP, we anticipate that the process of getting inflation all the way to 2 percent will take some time. The median projection in the SEP is 2.8 percent this year, falls to 2.4 percent next year, and reaches 2 percent in 2026. The Fed’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation. We are highly, highly attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective. As I noted earlier, since early last year, we have raised our policy rate by 5¼ percentage points, and we have decreased our securities holdings by more than $1 trillion. Our restrictive stance of monetary policy is putting downward pressure on economic activity and inflation. The Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue the process of significantly reducing our securities holdings. While we believe that our policy rate is likely at or near its peak for this tightening cycle, the economy has surprised forecasters in many ways since the pandemic, and ongoing progress sorry ongoing progress toward our 2 percent inflation objective is not assured. We are prepared to tighten policy further if appropriate. We’re committed to achieving a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to bring inflation sustainably down to 2 percent over time and to keeping policy restrictive until we’re confident that inflation is on a path to that objective. In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. While participants do not view it as likely to be appropriate to raise interest rates further, neither do they want to take the possibility off the table. If the economy evolves as projected, the median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 4.6 percent at the end of 2024, 3.6 percent at the end of 2025, and 2.9 percent at the end of 2026, still above the median longer term rate. These projections are not a Committee decision or plan; if the economy does not evolve as projected, the path of policy will adjust as appropriate to foster our maximum employment and price stability goals. In light of the uncertainties and risks, and how far we have come, the Committee is proceeding carefully. We will continue to make our decisions meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the incoming data and their implications for the outlook for economic activity and inflation, as well as the balance of risks. In determining the extent of any additional policy firming that may be appropriate to return inflation to 2 percent over time, the Committee will take into account the cumulative tightening of monetary policy, the lags with which monetary policy affects economic activity and inflation, and economic and financial developments. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to keeping longer  term inflation expectations well anchored. Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the longer run. To conclude: We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum employment and price stability goals. Thank you. I look forward to your questions.

So specifically on “any”: We do say that “in determining the extent of any additional policy firming that may be appropriate,” so “any additional policy firming” that sentence. So we added the word “any” as an acknowledgement that we believe that we are likely at or near the, the peak rate for this cycle. Participants didn’t write down additional hikes that we believe are likely, so that’s what we wrote down. But participants also didn’t want to take the possibility of further hikes off the table. So that’s really what we were thinking.

So, of course, I don’t comment on, on any other officials, even those who work at the Fed. But I’ll but I’ll try to answer your question more broadly. So the way  the way we’re looking at it is, is really this. When we started out, right, we said the first question is, how fast to move, and we moved very fast. The second question is, you know, really, how high to raise the policy rate? And that’s really the question that we’re still on here. We’re, we’re very focused on that, as I as I mentioned. People generally think that we’re at or near that and, and think it’s not likely that we will hike, although they don’t take that possibility off the table. So that’s when you get to that question, and that’s your answer, there’s a natural naturally, it begins to be the next question, which is when it will become appropriate to begin dialing back the amount of policy restraint that’s in place. So that’s really the next question, and that’s what people are thinking about and, and talking about. And I would just say this. We are seeing, you know, strong growth that is that appears to be moderating; we’re seeing a labor market that is coming back into balance by so many measures; and we’re seeing inflation making real progress. These are the things we’ve been wanting to see. We can’t know. We still have a ways to go. No one is declaring victory. That would be premature. And we can’t be guaranteed of this progress [continuing]. So we’re, we’re moving carefully in making that assessment of whether we need to do more or not. And that’s, that’s really the question that we’re on. But, of course, the other question, the question of when will it become appropriate to begin dialing back the amount of policy restraint in place, that, that begins to come into view and is clearly a discussion topic of discussion out in the world and also a discussion for us at our meeting today.

Sure. So it, it comes up in this way today. Everybody wrote down an SEP forecast. So many people mentioned what their what their rate forecast was. And there was no back and forth, no attempt to sort of reach agreement like, “This is what I wrote down; everybody did that, but many people did. And then, and I would say, there’s a general expectation that this will be this will be a topic for us, looking ahead. That, that’s really what happened in today’s meeting. I can’t do the head count for you in real time. But that’s generally what happened today.

I think you can say that there’s little basis for thinking that the economy is in a recession now. I would say that. I think there’s, there’s always a probability that, that there will be a recession in the next year, and it’s a meaningful probability no matter what the economy is doing. So it’s always a real possibility. The question is, is it so it’s a possibility here. I have always felt, since the beginning, that there was a possibility, because of the unusual situation, that the economy could cool off in a way that enabled inflation to come down without the kind of large job losses that have often been associated with high inflation and tightening cycles. So far, that’s what we’re seeing. That’s what many forecasters, on and off the Committee, are seeing. This result is not guaranteed. It is it is far too early to declare victory. And there are certainly risks. It’s certainly possible that, that the economy will behave in an unexpected way. It has done that repeatedly through the post in the post pandemic period. Nonetheless, where we are is, is we see the things that I that I mentioned.

So I think forecasters generally, if you go back a year, were very broadly forecasting a recession for this year, for 2023. And not only did that not happen that includes Fed forecasters and really, essentially, all forecasters; a very high proportion of forecasters predicted very weak growth or a recession not only did that not happen, we actually had a very strong year, and that was a combination of, of strong demand but also of real gains on the supply side. So this was the year when labor force participation picked up, where immigration picked up, where the distortions to supply and demand from the pandemic you know, the shortages and the bottlenecks really began to unwind. So we had significant supply side gains with strong demand, and we got what looks like a 2½ percent plus, or a little more than that, growth year at a time when potential growth this year might even have been higher than that, just because of the healing on the supply side. So that was a surprise to just about everybody. I think the inflation forecast is roughly, roughly what people wrote down a year ago, but in a very different setting. And I would say the labor market, because of the stronger growth, has also been significantly better. If you look back at the SEP from a year ago, there was a significant increase in, in unemployment. It didn’t really happen. We’re still at 3.7 percent. So we’ve seen, you know, strong growth, still a tight labor market but one that’s coming back into balance with the with support from the supply side, a greater supply of labor. It’s a you know, that’s, that’s what we see, and I think that combination was, was not anticipated broadly.

Nothing quite that mechanical is happening. The SEP really is, is a bottoms up built from the bottom up, right? So I think people are looking at what’s happening in the economy. And I think if you look at the big difference from September in the SEP, [it is that] the expectations for inflation this year, both headline and core, have come down, you know, really significantly in three months. That’s a big piece of, of this. At the same time, [real GDP] growth has turned out to be very strong in the third quarter. [Now it] is slowing, we believe, as, as appropriate. And we’ve got we’ve had several labor market reports, which suggest, again, significant progress toward greater balance across a very a broad range of indicators. You’re seeing so many of the indicators coming back to normal, not all of them. But so I think that people look at that, and they write down their basically, each individual writes down a forecast and a rate forecast that goes with that forecast. We tabulate them and, and publish it. And so it’s not it isn’t you ask about real rates, I take it?

You know, that’s that is that is something that we’re very conscious of, and aware of, and monitor, and it’s certainly a big part of it’s a part of how we think about things. But, really, it’s broader financial conditions that matter. And, as you well know, it’s so hard to know exactly, you know, what the what the real rate is or exactly how tight policy is at any given time. So you couldn’t follow that like it was a rule and think that you would get the right answer all the time, but it’s certainly something that we’re focused on. And, indeed, if you look at the projections, I think the expectation would be that the real rate is declining as we as we move forward.

Yeah. No, we we’re we don’t think about political events. We don’t think about politics. We think about what’s the right thing to do for the economy. The minute we start thinking about those things you know, we just can’t do that. We have to think, what’s the right thing? We’ll do the things that we think are right for the economy at the time we when we think is the right time. That’s what we’ll always do. So I mentioned we’re moving carefully. One of the things we’re moving carefully about is that decision over that assessment, really over whether, whether we’ve done enough, really. And you see that people are not writing down rate hikes. That’s, that’s us thinking that we have done enough but not, not feeling that really strongly, confidently and not wanting to take the possibility of a rate hike off the table. Nonetheless, it’s not the base case anymore, obviously, as it was, you know, 60, 90 days ago. So that’s, that’s how we’re that’s how we’re approaching things. And, and, you know, as I mentioned, we wrote down this SEP, and it talks about people have individual assessments of when it will be appropriate to, you know, to start to dial back on, on the tight policy we have in place, and that’s a discussion we’ll be having going forward. But that’s another assessment that we’re going to make very carefully, so as time goes forward.

So this last year has been remarkable for the, the sort of seesaw thing, the back and forth we’ve had over the course of the year of markets moving away and moving back and that kind of thing. So, and what I would just say is that we, we focus on what we have to do and how we need to use our tools to achieve our goals, and that’s what we really focus on. And people are going to have different forecasts about the economy, and they’re going to those are going to show up in market conditions, or they won’t, you know. But in any case, we have to do what we think is right. And, you know, in the long run, it’s important that financial conditions become aligned or are aligned with what we’re trying to accomplish, and, in the long run, they will be, of course, because we will do what it takes to get to our goals. And, ultimately, that will mean that financial conditions will, will come along. But in the meantime, there can be back and forth, and, you know, I’m just focused on what’s the right thing for us to do. And my colleagues are focused on that, too.

Listen, I welcome the progress. I think it’s, it’s really good to see the progress that we’re making. I think if you look at the 12 month look at the 6 month measures, you see very low numbers. If you look at 12 month measures, you’re still well above 2 percent. You’re actually above 3 percent on core, through November, PCE [inflation]. That isn’t to say  I’m not, you know, calling into question the progress. It’s great. We just need to see more. We need to see, you know, continued further, further progress toward getting back to 2 percent. That’s, that’s what we need to see. So, you know, our it’s our job to restore price stability. And that it’s one of our two jobs, along with maximum employment, and they’re equal. So we’re very focused on, on, you know, doing that. As I mentioned, we’re moving carefully at this point. We’re pleased with the progress, but, but we see the need for further progress, and I think I think it’s fair to say there is a lot of uncertainty about going forward. We’ve seen the economy move in surprising directions, so we’re just going to need to see more further progress.

So we’ll, we’ll look at the totality of the data. Growth is one thing, so is inflation, so is labor market data. So we’d, we’d look at the totality. As we as we make decisions about policy changes going forward, we’re going to be looking at all those things and, particularly, about the as they affect the outlook. So it’s ultimately all about the outlook and the balance of risks as well. So that’s what that’s what we’d be looking for. If we have stronger growth, you know, that’ll be good for people. That’ll be good for the labor market. It might actually mean that it takes a little longer to get inflation down to 2 percent. We will get it down to 2 percent, but, you know, if we see stronger growth, we’ll we will set policy according to what we actually see. And, and so that’s how I would answer.

It’s only a problem inso it’s not itself a problem. It’s only a problem insofar as it makes it more difficult for us to achieve our goals. And, you know, if you have if you have growth that’s robust, what that will mean is probably it will keep the labor market very strong. It probably will, will place some upward pressure on inflation. That could mean that it takes longer to get to 2 percent inflation. That could mean we need to keep rates higher for longer. It could even mean, ultimately, that we would need to hike again. It just is  it’s the way, the way our policy works.

So on, on the better balance side, there are just a lot of things. It’s  you see you see job growth still strong but moving back down to more sustainable levels, given population growth and labor force participation. The things that are not quite but let me go on with that list. You know, claims are low. If you look at surveys of businesses, they’re, they’re  sort of the era of this frantic labor shortage, [those kinds of worker shortages] are behind us, and they’re seeing a shortage of labor as being significantly alleviated. If you look at shortages of workers, whereas they thought job, job availability was the highest that it’d ever been or close to it, that’s now down to more normal levels by so many measures participation, unemployment so many measures: the unemployment job openings, quits, all of those things. So wages are still running a bit above what would be consistent with 2 percent inflation over a long period of time. They’ve been gradually cooling off. But if wages are running around 4 percent, that’s still a bit above, I would say. And I guess there, there are just a couple of other the unemployment rate is very, very low. And these are but, but I would just say, overall, the development of the labor market has been very positive. It’s been a good time for workers to find jobs and get solid wage increases.

It may be. A common theme is that, while inflation is coming down, and that’s very good news, the price level is not coming down. Prices of some, some goods and services are coming down. But overall, in the aggregate, the price level is not. So people are still living with high prices, and that’s, that’s not that is something that people don’t like. And, you know, so what will happen with that is, wages are now [changes in] real wages are now positive. So [nominal] wages are now moving up more than inflation, as inflation comes down. And so that might help improve the mood of people. But we do see those we see those public opinion surveys. The thing that we can do is to do our jobs, which is to use our tools to foster price stability, which has such great benefits over such long periods of time, and which is the thing that really enables us to work for and achieve an extended period of high employment, which is so beneficial for, you know, families and, and companies around the country.

Sorry if?

That’s not something we’re hoping to see. Obviously, we’re hoping to, to see something very different which is a continuation of what we have seen, which is the labor market coming into better balance without a significant increase in unemployment, inflation coming down without a significant increase in unemployment, and growth moderating without a significant increase in unemployment. That’s what we’re, we’re trying very much to achieve and not something that we’re looking to see.

You know, obviously, what we’ll do is we’ll look at the totality of the data, as I’ve mentioned a couple times, and, certainly, the labor data would be important in that. And, you know, if you if you can describe a situation like that where if, if there were the beginning of a recession or something like that, then, yes, that would certainly weigh heavily on that decision.

So we’re, we’re aware of the risk that we would hang on too long. You know, we know that that’s a risk, and we’re very focused on not making that mistake. And we do regard the two you know, we’ve come back into a better balance between the risk of overdoing it and the risk of underdoing it. Not only that, we were able to focus hard on the on the price stability mandate. And we’re getting back to the point where which is what you do when you’re very far from, from one of them, one of the two mandates you’re getting now back to the point where both mandates are important, and they’re, they’re more in balance, too. So I think we’ll be we’ll be very much keeping that in mind, as we make policy going forward. And the things we’ll be looking at, I’ve already described. You know, we’re, we’re obviously looking hard at what’s happening with demand, and what we see? We see the same thing other people see, which is a strong economy, which really put up quite a performance in 2023. We see good evidence and good reason to believe that growth will come in lower next year. And you see what the forecasts are. I think the median growth median participant wrote down 1.4 percent growth, but, you know, we’ll have to see. It’s very hard to predict. We’ll also be looking to see progress on inflation and, you know, the labor market remaining strong but, but ideally, without seeing the kind of large increase in unemployment that happens sometimes.

We haven’t typically tried to articulate, with one exception, really specific target levels, which was if you some of you will remember the thresholds that we used in, I guess, 2013. I don’t the answer is, these are things that we haven’t, you know, really worked out yet. We’re sort of just at the beginning of, of that discussion.

It wouldn’t, if that were to first of all, let me just say, that isn’t a plan. That’s, that’s just cumulating what people wrote down. So that’s not something you know this, but allow me to say it again: We don’t debate or discuss what the right, you know, whose SEP is right. We just say what they are, and we tabulate them and publish them. So and it’s, you know, it’s important for people to know that. But it wouldn’t need to be a sign of it could just be a sign that the economy is normalizing, and it doesn’t need the tight policy. It depends on the economy can evolve in many different ways, right? So but, but it could be more of what I just described.

Well, that’s what we’re finding out, and we’ve, you know, we’ve seen real progress in, in core inflation. It has been sticky, and famously, the service sector is thought to be stickier, but we’ve actually seen reasonable progress in nonhousing services, which was the area where, where you would expect to see less progress. We are seeing some progress there, though. And, in fact, all three of the categories of core [prices] are now contributing: goods, housing services, nonhousing services. They’re all contributing in different at different levels, you know, meeting by meeting or, rather, report by report. So, yeah.

Right. So we got we got CPI the morning of the first day, and we got PPI the next day, which informs the, you know, the translation into PCE [inflation]. So it’s very late in the game, you know, to but nonetheless, participants are allowed to, encouraged to update their SEP forecast until probably midmorning today. After that, so staff has to has to cumulate all of that and create the documents that you see. So until about midmorning, a little, maybe late morning, it’s okay to update, and I believe some people did update their forecast based on what we saw today.

The question of whether there have been fundamental structural shifts is, is really hard to know the answer and a very interesting one right now. The one that would affect the one that comes to mind, though, is just the question of where the neutral rate of interest is. And so, for example, if it’s risen, and I’m not saying that it has, but if it were to have risen, that would mean that, that interest rates would need to be a little bit higher to convey the same level of restriction. The thing is, we’re not really going to know that. You know, people will be writing papers about that 10 years from now and still fighting about it. So it’s just that it’s going to be uncertain. So we’re going to be making policy in this, you know, difficult, uncertain, really unprecedented environment. Some someone once said that you know the you know the natural rate of interest by its works, and that’s really right, but that’s very difficult because policy operates with a lag. So that’s one of the reasons why we slowed down this year. We started slowing down at this meeting last year, reducing the pace at which we were adding restriction. And, over the course of this year, we really slowed down a lot to give those lags time to work. In terms of demand, has demand shifted more away from services into goods? There’s  you can make a case for that, that the shift back into services has not been complete, and it doesn’t look like it’s ongoing, but I don’t know if that’s right. Maybe people just bought so much stuff that they temporarily don’t want any more stuff. They haven’t got anyplace to put it. [Laughter]

I mean, the reason you wouldn’t wait to get to 2 percent to cut rates is that policy would be, it would be too late. I mean, you’d want to be reducing restriction on the economy well before 2 percent because or before you get to 2 percent so you don’t overshoot, if we think, think of restrictive policy as weighing on economic activity. You know, it takes it takes a while for policy to get into the economy, affect economic activity, and affect inflation. So I can’t give you a precise answer. But if you look at what’s in the in the SEP, and, you know, I think you’ll see a reasonable estimate of the time lags and things like that that it would take.

I wouldn’t want to I wouldn’t want to identify any one precise point, because I would be able to look back then and probably find out that it turned out not to be right. But we’ll be looking at it and, and looking at the broad collection of factors.

I think I think this. You know, we felt since the beginning that it would be a combination of two factors. The first factor is just the unwinding of, of what happened in the pandemic: the distortions of supply and demand. And the second thing would be our policy, which was weighing on aggregate demand and actually making it easier for the supply side to recover because of lower demand. We thought those two things were going to be necessary. Sorry, say your say the last part of your question again.

Yeah. So it’s not that it may or may not be about “different,” the

We’re, we’re not talking about altering the pace of QT right now, just to get that out of the way. So the balance sheet seems to be working pretty much as expected. What we’ve been seeing is, you know, that we’re allowing runoff each month. That’s adding up. I think we’re down we’re close to 1.2 trillion [dollars]. That’s showing up. The reverse repo facility [take  up] has been coming down quickly, and reserves have been either moving up or as a result or holding steady. At a certain point, you know, there won’t be any more to come out of, or there’ll be a level where [take up at] the reverse repo facility levels out. And, at that point, reserves will start to come down. You know, we still have you know that we intend to reduce our securities holdings until we judge that the quantity of reserve balances has reached a level somewhat above that consistent with ample reserves, and we also intend to slow and then stop the decline in size of the balance sheet when reserve balances are somewhat above the level judged to be consistent with ample reserves. We’re not at those levels, you know, with, with reserves close to 3.5 trillion [dollars]. We’re not we don’t think we’re at those [levels judged consistent with ample] reserves. There isn’t a lot of evidence of that. We’re watching it carefully. And, you know, so far so far, it’s working pretty much as expected, we think.

So I think they’re, they’re on independent tracks. You’re asking, though, the question, I guess you’re implying the question of can you continue with QT at such time QT, which is a tightening action at such time as policy is still tight? And the answer is, it depends on the reason. You know, if you’re if you’re if you’re cutting rates because you’re going back to normal, that’s one thing, [and distinct from] if you’re cutting them because the economy is really weak. So you can imagine, you’d have to know what the reason is to know whether it would be appropriate to do those two things at the same time.

Thanks very much.