Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Our country continues to face a difficult and challenging time, as the pandemic is causing tremendous hardship here in the United States and around the world. People have lost loved ones. Many millions have lost their jobs. There is great uncertainty about the future. At the Federal Reserve, we are strongly committed to using our tools to do whatever we canand for as long as it takesto provide some relief and stability, to ensure that the recovery will be as strong as possible, and to limit lasting damage to the economy. The most important response to this crisis has come from our healthcare workers. And on behalf of the Federal Reserve, let me express our sincere gratitude to those dedicated individuals who put themselves at risk, day after day, in service to others and to our nation. Let me also thank the many other essential workers across the country who have helped meet our basic needs for goods and services in these difficult times. The virus and the forceful measures taken to control its spread have induced a sharp decline in economic activity and a surge in job losses. Indicators of spending and production plummeted in April, and the decline in real GDP in the current quarter is likely to be the most severe on record. Even after the unexpectedly positive May employment report, nearly 20 million jobs have been lost on net since February, and the unemployment rate has risen about 10 percentage points, to 13.3 percent. As was highlighted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, this figure likely understates the extent of unemployment; accounting for the unusually large number of workers who reported themselves as employed but absent from their jobs would raise the unemployment rate by about 3 percentage points. The downturn has not fallen equally on all Americans, and those least able to shoulder the burden have been the most affected. In particular, the rise in joblessness has been especially severe for lowerwage workers, for women, and for African Americans and Hispanics. In recent weeks, some indicators suggest a stabilization or even a modest rebound in some segments of the economy, such as retail merchandise and motor vehicle sales. Employment rose in many sectors of the economy in May, and the unemployment [rate] edged down as some workers returned to their jobs from temporary layoffs. With the easing of social distancing restrictions across the country, people are increasingly moving about, and many businesses are resuming operations to varying degrees. At the same time, many households have been receiving stimulus payments and unemployment benefits, which are supporting incomes and spending. Activity in many parts of the economy has yet to pick up, however, and overall output is far below earlier levels. Moreover, despite the improvements seen in the May jobs report, unemployment remains historically high. Weak demand, especially in sectors most affected by the pandemic, is holding down consumer prices. As a result, inflation has fallen well below our symmetric 2 percent objective. Indicators of longerterm inflation expectations have been fairly steady. The extent of the downturn and the pace of recovery remain extraordinarily uncertain and will depend in large part on our success in containing the virus. We all want to get back to normal, but a full recovery is unlikely to occur until people are confident that it is safe to reengage in a broad range of activities. The severity of the downturn will also depend on the policy actions taken at all levels of government to provide relief and to support the recovery when the public health crisis passes. The Fed’s response is guided by our mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people, along with our responsibilities to promote the stability of the financial system. We are committed to using our full range of tools to support the economy in this challenging time. In March, we quickly lowered our policy interest rate to near zero, where we expect to keep it until we are confident that the economy has weathered recent events and is on track to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. We have also been taking broad and forceful actions to support the flow of credit in the economy. Without access to credit, families could be forced to cut back on necessities or even lose their homes. Businesses could be forced to downsize or close, resulting in further losses of jobs and incomes and worsening the downturn. Preserving the flow of credit is thus essential for mitigating the damage to the economy and setting the stage for the recovery. Since March, we have been purchasing sizable quantities of Treasury and agency mortgagebacked securities in order to support the smooth functioning of these markets, which are vital to the flow of credit in the economy. Our ongoing purchases have helped to restore orderly market conditions and have fostered more accommodative financial conditions. As market functioning has improved since the strains experienced in March, we have gradually reduced the pace of these purchases. To sustain smooth market functioning and thereby foster the effective transmission of monetary policy to broader financial conditions, we will increase our holdings of Treasury and agency mortgagebacked securities over coming months at least at the current pace. We will closely monitor developments and are prepared to adjust our plans as appropriate to support our goals. The Federal Reserve is also undertaking programs to provide stability to the financial system and to more directly support the flow of credit in the economyfor households, for businesses of all sizes, and for state and local governments. These programs benefit the economy by providing financing where it is not otherwise available. In addition, by serving as a backstop to key credit markets, the programs can increase the willingness of private lenders to extend credit. Many of these programs rely on emergency lending powers that are available only in very unusual circumstances, such as thesethose we find ourselves in today. We are deploying these lending powers to an unprecedented extent, enabled in large part by financial backing and support from Congress and from the Treasury. We will continue to use these powers forcefully, proactively, and aggressively until we’re confident that we are solidly on the road to recovery. When the time comes, after the crisis has passed, we will put these emergency tools back in the toolbox. I would stress that these are lending powers, not spending powers. The Fed cannot grant money to particular beneficiaries. We can only create programs or facilities with broadbased eligibility to make loans to solvent entityentities with the expectation that the loans will be repaid. Many borrowers will benefit from these programs, as will the overall economy. But for many others, getting a loan that may be difficult to repay may not be the answer. In these cases, direct fiscal support may be needed. Elected officials have the power to tax and spend and to make decisions about where we, as a society, should direct our collective resources. The CARES Act and other legislation provide direct help to people and businesses and communities. This direct support can make a critical difference not just in helping families and businesses in a time of need, but also in limiting longlasting damage to our economy. At this meeting, my colleagues and I continued our discussion of approaches for conducting monetary policy when the federal funds rate is at its lower bound. The measures we discussed included explicit forms of forward guidance and asset purchases. We used these tools in the aftermath of the Global Financial Crisis, and they have become a standard part of our toolkit. We also reviewed the historical and foreign experience with targeting interest rates along the yield curve. Whether such an approach would usefully complement our main tools remains an open question. We will continue our discussions in upcoming meetings and will evaluate our monetary policy stance and communications as more information about the trajectory of the economy becomes available. We also resumed our regular quarterly Summary of Economic Projections, or the SEP. The SEP is an input into our deliberations, not an outcome, and it does not represent a Committee view. Rather, FOMC participants write down their individual views of the most likely path for the economy, conditioned on each participant’s view of appropriate monetary policy. We tabulate those submissions, and we publish them as the SEP. Given the unusually high level of uncertainty about the outlook, many participants noted that they see a number of reasonably likely paths for the economy, and that it’s not possible to identify with confidence a single path as the “most likely” one. Nonetheless, we believe that regular publication of the SEP provides a useful perspective on the way FOMC participants are assessing the path ahead. What the June SEP shows is a general expectation of an economic recovery beginning in the second half of this year and lasting over the next couple of years, supported by interest rates that remain at their current level, near zero. Of course, my colleagues and I will continue to base our policy decisions on the full range of plausible outcomes and not on a particular forecast. The riskmanagement approachthis riskmanagement approach is the best way we can promote our maximumemployment and pricestability goals in these unusually uncertain circumstances. Finally, I want to acknowledge the tragic events that have again put a spotlight on the pain of racial injustice in this country. The Federal Reserve serves the entire nation. We operate in, and are part of, many of the communities across the country where Americans are grappling with and expressing themselves on issues of racial equality. I speak for my colleagues throughout the Federal Reserve System when I say that there is no place at the Federal Reserve for racism and there should be no place for it in our society. Everyone deserves the opportunity to participate fully in our society and in our economy. These principles guide us in all we do, from monetary policy to our focus on diversity and inclusion in our workplace and to our work to ensure fair access to credit across the country. We will take this opportunity to renew our steadfast commitment to these principles. We understand that the work of the Fed touches communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We are committed to using our full range of tools to support the economy and to help assure that the recovery from this difficult period will be as robust as possible. Thank you. I look forward to our questions.

So, first, I would say that we think that monetary policy today is currently well positioned to support the economy in this challenging time. If we didn’t think that, of course, we would change our policy now. As you know, wewe lowered our policy rate very quickly, [more] quickly than others, to the effective lower bound. And we’ve said that we’ll keep it there until the economy has weathered the effects of the virus and is on track to achieve our goals. You can see that inin the dot plot, as I think you pointed out, that overwhelmingly, FOMC participants expect, as their baseline expectation, no rate increase at least through 2022. And if you look at surveys of more forecasters and market participants, financial market prices, et cetera, those also appropriately reflect a long spell with rates at the effective lower bound. So the first thing is, monetary policy is in a good place, and it’sthat’s well understood in the markets. Secondly, we’ve also taken strong measures to support the flow of credit in the economy, as I mentioned. And, third, we’re continuing asset prices in coming months atat a at a relatively high level.1 So for all those reasons, we feel like policy is now in a good place. So as we look ahead, we see that the path for theahead for the economy is highly uncertain and continues to depend to a really significant degree on the path of the pandemic. So, at this meeting, what we did was, as I mentioned, wewe looked in some depth at forward guidance and asset purchases and looked carefully at those. We also received a briefing on the historical experience with yield curve control. And we’ll continue those discussions in upcoming meetings and evaluate our stance and communications as more and portionmore more information about the trajectory of the economy becomes available. II would just say, in terms ofof what we’re looking for, wewe expect to get a better understanding of the economy’s trajectory and, particularly, how we should best deploy those tools to achieve those goals. So that’s really what we’re looking to achieve, and, as you can see, we’rewe’re actively at work on that. 1 Chair Powell intended to say “asset purchases” rather than “asset prices.”

Our current policy stance is appropriate. And remember, we’re usingwe’re using ourour emergency 13(3) lending tools to an unprecedented extent. We have asset purchases, and we’ve now said that we won’t go any lower than this, andbutbut that we’re prepared to adjust as appropriate, and rates are at the effective lower bound. So we have all of our tools inin use in a strong way. And so what we’rewhat we’re waiting for is tois to learn more. II think, actually, if you look at the May employment report, it’s a pretty goodprobably the biggest data surprise that anybody can remember. It’s a pretty good illustration of just how uncertain these times are. The economy is reopening. We’re going to learn a whole lot about thethe path of the economy in the nextin coming months. So that’s really what we’rewhat we’re looking for. In terms of inflation, you’ll know that wewe had a 128month expansion, and we never did quite get inflation back to 2 percent on a symmetric, sustained basis. We got close for the last couple of years, but we never did quite get there. So I think we have to be humble about our ability to move inflation up and particularly when unemployment isis going to be above most estimates of the natural rate forcertainly above the median in ourin ourin our SEP well through the end ofpast the end of 2022. So I doI think we’re in the right place now. We we are looking carefully at what theas we learn more andand better understand thethe path of the economy, we will be assessing, what’s the best way to deploy all of our tools to achieve our goals in the best possible way? And I’llI’ll just say again that we arethethe May employment report, of course, was awas a welcome surprise, very pleased. We hope we get many more like it. But I think we have to be honest. It’s ait’s a long road. It’sit’s, depending on how you count it, well more than 20 million people displaced in the labor market. It’s going to take some time. And we are going to be deploying our toolsall of our tools, to their full extent, in pursuit of thatof those goals, however long it takes.

I would start withthat’s where I would start. I would say, you know, we werewe just had a period of unemployment, as you know, that was in thewell below 4 percent, hanging around 3½ percent, that lasted two years. And during that period of time, we saw a lot of great things happening in the labor market, things that we’d love to get back to. We didn’t see any problems with price inflation. Price inflation didn’t really react much. So, I would say, you know, we’d be looking to get inflation back up, and wewe’d be prepared to tolerate pretty lowwelcome, in fact, not tolerate but welcome very low readings onon unemployment just based on what wewhat we saw in the lastin the last expansion. So, you know, we’rewe’re not thinking about raising rates. We’re not even thinking about thinking about raising rates. So what we’re thinking about isis providing support for this economy. We do think this is going to take some time. I think most forecasters believe that. It would be great ifif we got a whole bunch more months of job creation like that. Not notwithstanding that, as I mentioned, there arethere are just a lot of people that are unemployed. And it seems quite likely that there will be a significant group at the end of eveneven after a lot of strong job growth, that’ll still be struggling to find jobs, and we’ll still be providing strong accommodation for that.

I don’t think that thethat the Great Depression is a good example or a likely outcome or a model for what’s happening here at all. I really don’t. And therethere are just so many fundamental differences. First, the government response has been so fast and so forceful. The origin was quite different. This was a veryan economy that was in a healthy place. Of course, every economy has longerrun challenges, notand thatthat includes our economy, notwithstanding that 50year low in unemployment and the longest expansion in our history and every reason to think it could continue. So that’s different from what was happening around the time of the Greatthe Depression started. The financial system this time was in was inwas in very good shape, much better capitalized. So, you know, it’s just not the right model. I would say, we’re learning. You know, every month that passes, we’re seeing more, we’re learning more. And I think particularly the next few months will be very important in learning what thewhat the real story will be, because we’ll see thethe significant incoming data about the opening of the economythe reopening of the economy. You knowand I would say, assuming that thethat thethat the disease remains or becomes pretty much under control, I think that what you see is ais a very weak second quarter, historically weak, and then anan expansion that builds momentum over time. People will adjust, probably a little bit gradually, to some of the activities that would that involve getting together in smallin large groups in close quarters. Those will be the harder parts of the economy to recover. But, ultimately, we do see a full recovery over time. And that’s really what, you know, what I think I’mI’m personally seeing. And you could see significant job growth inin coming months as people return to their jobs, but you’re still going to face probably an extended period where it will be difficult for many people to find work. And forand that’s what you see ininin, really, many, many forecasts at this point. That doesn’t mean it’s right, but that’s sort of aa broad expectation, certainly not the Depression forecast.

Chris, this is a really important risk. And I think it’sit’s not the risk for the next few months, but it’s the risk over time ofof lasting damage to theto these you know, to the productive capacity of the United States, typically in two forms. One, through extended periods of unemployment, people lose contact with the labor force. They get out of touch with the skills andthat they need, andand they have a hard time getting back in, and that drives thatthat, you know, it’s very damaging to people’s lives and their working lives. And it also just lowers, in a wayit canit can increase theyou know, the unemployment rate, but it can also lower the labor force participation rate, which is almost worse, in a way, to have people dropping out of the labor force where we need them in thein the labor force working. The other piece of it is just businesses. You know, a shock like this that just comes in, it’s like a natural disaster. You wouldn’t want a lot of perfectly good businesses, particularly the smaller and mediumsized businesses that may not have a lot of resources to sustain them to you know, to go out of business permanently in a situation like thatlike this where, really, there was no reason for it. Of course, you know, businesses are going to go in and out. They’re going to fail all the time, and that’s a healthy thing in capitalism. That’s something that has to happen. But this is different. This is a waypotentiallyso those are the things we’ve been worried about. We didn’t change. Youyou’re right, though. We didn’t change our longerrun estimate ofof potential growth or of the unemployment rate. And that’sI would say, in my thinking, the reason I didn’t change mine is that I stillII think we can avoid that or avoid much of that, most of that even. Andand we do that with measures thatthat, you know, keep people in their homes; thatthat support hiring; that support growth; that avoid unnecessary, avoidable business insolvencies. And that’s all the things that we’re trying to do. Basically, if you look at what’s happened, as I mentioned, there’s somethingsomewhere short of 25 million people have been displaced, even after the good May employment report. What we’re trying to do is create an environment in which they have the best chance either to go back to their old job or to get a new job. That’sthat’s kind of the most important part of this exercise. And maybe theseit’s probably hopeful at this point to say thatthat we won’t have longerrun damage to the economy, and these numbers won’t change. Sobut I think it’s way too early to beto be changing the longer runsee, these arethese are not meant to be short run numbers. They’re calledthey’re longerrun assessments, so II wouldI have not changed mine, and I’m hopeful thatthat I won’t have to change it.

There have been gains in market function, although not fully back to where you would say they were, for example, inin February, before the pandemic arrived. We don’t take those gains for granted, though. This is athis is a highly fluid situation, and we’re we’re not taking those for granted. And, in addition, as I pointed out in myin my statement, those purchases are clearly also supporting highly accommodativeor accommodative financial conditions, and that’sthat’s a good thing, so that’s why we’re doing that. Turning quickly to Main Street, so I would say that the thingwhat we’ve done on Main Street, I think to a greater degree, is, we’ve listened to feedback. So we’ve been out repeatedly for feedback in trying to create aa much more difficult product than, really, the other facilities. And I think thisthis last set of changes we made have actually been very positive for the facility. I think it’s going to be better able to achieve its goals, and, you know, so we’ve used the time well, I think. we did, as you saw earlierI guess it’s early this week or late, whenever we did it in the last few dayswas we lowered the minimum loan size and we increased the maximum loan size. But, I think, even more importantly, we lengthened the maturity and we stretched out the repayment schedule significantly. So borrowers will get aa twoyear delay until they have to make any principal paymentsrepayments and a oneyear delay on interest. So we had been hearing from both borrowers and lenders that these would be very helpful. We made the changes. We’re putting them through the facility. The next step will be to register lenders. At that time, loans can begin to be made. Shortly after that, the facility itself will be up, and those facilities can bethose loans can be sold95 percent of the loans. And it’s 95 percent across the board now in the Main Street facility can be sold. So all of that should happen quickly now. And I do think this hasthis has been a challenging project, but I think we’ve come to ato a better place. And, by the way, we’rewe’re going to be prepared to adapt further, if we need to. Andand that’s true of all of our facilities. These are unique. There’s nothere’s no playbook here. Youyou have to draw this up and then try it out. And we’vewe’ve been, you know, very willing to adapt and will continue to be.

We canwe can make changes to bank regulation and supervision. I don’t know that we have the ability to make changes, for example, in mortgage payments, if that’s what you’re thinking of, or credit card payments. That’s reallythat’s something that could be legislative, or it could just be what thewhat the banks themselves are doing. There’s been a tremendous amount of forbearance on the part of the banks, and I guess our role there would be to encourage it, but those are not decisions that we hold any legal authority to make, and weby the way, we have encouraged those decisions. I hope that’s responsive to your question.

I think we try to keep our comments on fiscal policy at a high level, and I’llI’ll come to your specific question, but I would just say this: This is the biggest economic shock in the U.S. and in the world, really, in living memory. We went from the lowest level of employunemployment in 50 years to the highest level in close to 90 years, and we did it in two months. Extraordinary. And, appropriately, the response from fiscal authorities has been large, forceful, and very quick byby the standards of these things. Roughly $3 trillion Congress has authorized, and that’s benefiting households; laidoff workers; small, medium, and large businesses; hospitals; state and local governments14 percent of GDP. It isit’s in a class by itself, in terms of both the size and the speed of it, and it’s also pretty innovative. You know, theboth the PPP and the unemployment insurance are quite innovative in the American context, and there were difficulties in implementing it, but that’s really a function ofof their novelty, I think. Those programsby the way, let me add: The Fed alsowe both innovated and acted forcefully, progressively, proactively, and aggressively as well. If you put those together, all of that is making a difference now. You look at the income data. The expanded unemployment insurance and also the stimulus checks have gone a long way to replacing lost income fromfrom job loss. I think you’re seeing it in the job market data. Many are giving the PPP credit on that front andand in keeping small businesses going. So it’sso far, it’s a good response, and it’s havingit’s having a big effect. Youyou get tothe question is, it’s bigeveryone can see that it’s big. Is it going to be big enough? And thatthat is the question. Andand the question forforthe question that I’ve been concerned about, really, is this issue of longerrun damage to the economy. We’rewe’rewe’re doing a fair job of getting through these first few months, more than a fair job. The question, though, is, that group of people who won’t be able to go back to work quickly, what about them? And that could be many millions of people, you know, parts who worked in parts of the economy that will be the slow ones to recover. And, you know, we want those people back in the labor force. We want them getting jobs. Soandand they’re going to need possiblyprobably will need further support. So I will just say this: It’s possible that we will need to do more, and it’s possible that Congress will need to do more. In terms of the $600 unemployment insurance, I wouldn’tI wouldn’t try to give Congress advice on the specifics of that. II know they’re looking atI mean, II know from both talking to people andand reading the papers that they’re looking at a whole bunch of different possible approaches going forward, and some of those seem kind of promising. So, you know, we’re happy to give advice if people ask for it butbut probably notnot publicly.

I can’t offer any advice, but I will provide a little context for the forI want to be clear about the pictureone way to look at the picture, really, and that is this: You canyou can get at this by looking at, you know, thethethe widest measure of unemployment, of labor market slack, if you will, is the U6 measure. And the Uthat’s the the one we looktalk about all the time is called U3, by economists. And thethe one that has a much broader measurement of slack in the economy is U6. So ininin U6, the U6 level of unemployment has tripled from 7 percent to 21 percent. Thatthat amounts to 22 million additional people who arewho’vewho’ve lost work in the economy either by going to part time or something like that. So that’s in the low 20s, and that’s post the May employment report. You can get at it a different way. You can look atat just the regular unemployment rate. You can take the 21 [million]people who havehadare listed as unemployed right now. You can add more on for the ones who were miscoded. You can also take those people who are suddenly out of the labor force. You put those together, and that has gone up by about 24 million. So those are two different measures of what’s happened. So the question is, 20, 22, 24 million peoplegot to get them back to work. Somehow, we’ve got to all, as a country, get those people back to work. They didn’t do anything wrong; this was a natural disaster, and II reallyI do think the responses so far have been great. So that’s the way I would think about it. And ifif you think weI would just, in terms of the May employment report, it’sit’s so nice to see. I mean, I think what people were thinking was that you’d start to get those back towork kind of numbers in June and July and August. Very few people saw them in May. I mean, almost no one saw that happening as early as midMay, but it did. And so, you know, and wewe don’t know fully what that means, whether it’s just a timing change or whether it will prove to be much more than that. We’llwe’re going to have to wait and see. It is aas I mentioned earlier, it is clear evidence of just how uncertain things are, andand how humble we have to be about our ability toto really have confident predictions as opposed to just predictions. So, bottom line, I would just say, thatthatthe key thing people need to understand is that there’s just a lot of work to do in the labor market. We’re going to stick with this and support that until the work is done. That youyou canthat is something we’re going to do with all of our tools, and I think it may require Congress to help as well. It may, but that’s going to be their decision. Onyou also asked about the second wave. So weyou know, we have major responsibilities and powerful tools, but the decision about when to reopen the economy is one for elected officials at the state and local and federal level. And, you know, if they ask, wewe don’t have any particular expertise here at the Fed in pandemics or coronaviruses or anything like that. We talk to experts, butyou know, so we don’t have anything special to add on that. I would just say, it’syou know, it’s kind of self evident, I think, that if aif it happens, you know, thethe issue would be, first of all, people’s health, but secondly, you could see a public loss of confidence inin parts of the economy that will be already slow to recover. So it could hurt the recovery even if you don’t have a nationallevel pandemic, just ajust a series ofof local ones, of local spikes couldcould have the effect of undermining people’s confidence in traveling, in restaurants and entertainment, anything that involves getting people together in small groups and feeding them or flying them aroundthose things could be hurt. So it would not be a positive development, and I’ll just leave it at that.

We have, you know, significant interest, we think. And also, remember, lots and lots of companies are getting financed, too. Thethe banks are lending. The markets are open. You know, you have aaa much better lending climate thanthan certainly than we had in February and March. We don’t think it’s too late, though. Wewe and we do expect it to be up quite soon. In terms of the timing of these things, so, you know, we’ll leave them open aswe’ll leave them open for new loans as long as they need to. That’ll be a decision we make, of course, with our colleagues at the Treasury Department. And, at a certain point, there won’t be a need for further loans, andand then the assets willwill be there. And so if that’sI don’t know if that’s a part of your question too, but I would just say that, at that point, you know, thethe useful role of theof the Federal Reserve is probably close to an end at that point. We don’t have any expertise in managing pools of credit assets, loansif you willor bonds, and we, you know, we don’t want to be madewe don’t really want to be part of the decisions that have to be made to manage such a portfolio, so we’d be looking to have that done either someplace else or, you know, byby a third party or at the Treasury Department or something. And we’re, you know, we’re working on ideas for that. But our real focus now is onis getting these facilities going andand getting them to do the job that theythey need to do.

I would say that many forecasters had been expecting a bottom for the economy inaround the middle of the year, withwith a huge range of uncertainty. I think the labor marketthe evidence of one jobs report is that the labor market may have hit bottom in May. We don’t know that; we’re going to see. And, you know, many forecasters widely expect aa recovery over the second half of the year. So itit is possible, but the thing is, we’re not going to overreact to a single data point. We’re going to be very careful about reaching any conclusions aboutabout good data or bad data. So, I think, you know, we’re going to be here with our tools supporting this economy for as long as it’s needed. Sobut I think there’s a possibility thatthat the bottom has come in the labor market, but we don’t know that yet. We’llwe’ll know more as we go forward. So, in terms of theyou know, the effect of the pandemic on inequality, what you see the pandemic, of course, hits everybody, but in an economic sense, it hits those industries that arethat involve groups of people in tight groups, either in places where they’reit’s the travel, leisure, restaurant, bars, those kinds of serviceeconomy jobs. And so a lot of the lost jobs were from people who work in the service economy, dealing with the public, for example, and relativelycompared to other jobs, relatively low wages. So, and ifif you just look at what that is, unemployment has gone up more for Hispanics, more for African Americans. And women have borneborne an extraordinarya notable share of the burden beyond their percentage in the workforce. So that’s reallyreally, really unfortunate, because if you just go back two months, where we were was, we had, effectively, the first tight labor market in a quartercentury. And for the last couple of years before the pandemic hit, you were seeing wages go up the most for people at the lower end of the wage spectrum, and that was great. And, you know, we were meeting with people from low andlow and moderateincome communities all over the country and hearing, “Don’t change this. Do whatever youdo whatever you can. Keep this going. This is the best labor market we’ve seen.” And we had every expectevery expectation, every reason to expect that this would continue, and then this comes. So it’sit’s heartbreaking, and, you know, we want to get it back, sowe really want to get it back. And so I think we learned a number of things over the course of the last few years. One of them is that, you know, Iyouyou can have 3, 3½ percent unemployment for a couple of years, and, really, you see modest moves in wages and relatively almost invisible moves in inflation. So that was not anybody’s understanding of the structure of the economy, I think, or most peoples’, anyway. So we can use our tools toto support the labor market and support the economy. We canwe can use them until we do fully recover, and thatthat’s what we’re planning to do. You know, we don’t target different groups. Whatwhat we arewe are cognizant of the fact, though, that late in the last cycle, late in the last expansion, the benefits really do go more to people at the lower end of the wage spectrum forfor the first time in many years when labor markets are tight, when unemployment is low. And so we would really like to get back to that get back to that place.

In terms of the waythe way we do forecasts is, wewe don’t thewe don’t tend to incorporate things we’re highly uncertain about. So I think thethe forecast would not have included substantial additionalyou know, big additional fiscal support for the economy. Maybemaybe a modest amount, something that looks like aa lowend guess on what might come out of the current negotiations. That’s basically what would be in the baseline. So, of course, if there were more fiscal support, you’d seeyou’d see better results sooner, but that’s a question for Congress. You know, we’rewe’re spending a lot, and that’s really what they get to decide. In terms of Main Street and our willingness to expand it further, I think we’reone thing we’re looking atvery strongly looking at isis nonprofits, and is there a way toto incorporate them intointo that facility or a similar facility. So that’s another dimension. I you know, if we had a great idea for changing Main Street, we would’ve done it. And weand we have done some things that I think are really very positive lately here. But if weas we learn more, it could beit could be in terms of size, it could be in terms of lots of different things. But II think we have a good product to go to market with now, and I think it’ll get it’ll get out there soon. And, you know, we’ll see, andand we’ll be willing to continue to adapt.

I don’t have a reliable estimate of that. Clearly, not everyone will go back. Butand II would say, many will go back, but what’swhat’s going to be the remainder whenyou know, when we reach sort of what is the new normal? It’sit’s so uncertain, but itit could be a good number of millions of people, I think, in manyin many estimates, but theseI’d say you’re so early in the process. People arefor example, people are going back and looking at other significant changes in the economy, and they’ve seen how many people go back when, for example, there’s a technological change, and things like thatyou may have seen some of this researchand you come up with an estimate. Iyou know, it’s just going to be very hard to say. II, but Imymy assumption is that there will be a significant chunkchunk well into the millions. II don’t want to give you a number, because it’s going to be a guess, but well, well into the millions of people whowho don’t get to go back to their old job. And, in fact, there isn’t athere may not be a job in that industry for them for some time. There will eventually be, but it could be some years before we get back to those people finding jobs. I mean, whenwhen people lose a job, if they can find a job in their own industry, that’s usually the fastest way, isis they know other people in that industry, different kinds of jobs. That’s usually the fastest. If you have to go to a different industry and start over again, it’s much harder, and that’s where you start to lose people’swho arejust fall out of the labor force. Andand, you know, it’s very tough on their lives. We all know people whoto whom that happened in the Global Financial Crisis, and, hence, our desire toto do what we can to support this andandand support this recovery withwith the tools that we have.

We do. We do track all unemployment by all kinds, as you know all kinds of different demographics, including particularly the African American unemployment rate, which reached an alltime low since the data started being kept in the modern era. Of course, it’s still close to twice the white unemploymentit is twice the unemployment rate, or it was back in theback then. It’s certainly much higher now. You know, thethe best thing we can do with our monetary policy tools is tois to look at, you know, the evidence of what we sawthat we saw with our own eyes so recently, which is that the economy can have very low unemploymentvery low unemployment. It could’ve been lower than we were. It could be lower than 3½ percent without seeing financial imbalances, without seeing inflation goinggetting out of control. We, frankly, didn’t even get inflation back up to targetwithout seeing wages getting out of touch withwith where they should be, so that’s thethat’s the biggest thing we can do. You know, inininequality is something that’s been with us increasingly for more than four decades, and it’sit’s not really related to monetary policy. It’s, oror it’s more related tothere are a lot of theories onon what causes it, but it’s been something that’s more or less been going up consistently for more than four decades. And there are a lot of different theories, one of which isjust is that itglobalizationglobalization and technology call for rising levels of skills and aptitudes and education, and that U.S. educational attainment kind of flattened out, certainly relative to our peersflattened out over that period. And so a lotso that means if you’reif you’re on the right side of those trends, then those things are good for you. If you’re not, then your wages are going to stagnate. And wages for the bottom, you know, 10 percent really haven’t gone up in real terms in a very long time, andover a long period of time, whereas wages for the people at the top, compensation, any way you cut itbefore taxes, after taxes, after transfers, all of those, any way you cut itwages havecompensation has gone up a whole lot for people at the top, and it really hasn’t gone up for people at the bottom. If you look more in the middle, then it’sthenthen it has gone up for most other groups, but at the bottom, not so much in real terms, in inflationadjusted terms. So, you know, wewe call it out as aas an important factor in the economy, and we will use our tools to support maximum employment and take that, you know, definition to heart. But, obviously, that’s something that’s going to require an allofsociety, allofgovernment response.

What we’ve targeted is broader financial conditions. If you go back to the end of February and early March, you hadbasically, the world markets realized at just about the same timeI remember that Mondaythat there was going to be a global pandemic, and that this possibility that it would be contained in one province in China, for all practical purposes, was not going to happen. It allit wasyou know, it was Iran, Italy, Korea, and then it became clear in markets. From that point forward, investors everywhere in the world, for a period of weeks, wanted to sell everything that wasn’t cash or aa shortterm Treasury instrument. They didn’t want it to have any risk at all. And so what happened is, markets stopped working. They stopped working, and companies couldn’tcouldn’t borrow. They couldn’t roll over their debt. People couldn’t borrow. So that’sthat’s the kind of situation that can be veryfinancial turbulence and malfunctiona financial system that’s not working can greatly amplify the negative effects of what was clearly going to be a major economic shock. So what our tools werewere put to work to do was to restore the markets to function. And I think, you know, some of that has really happened, as Ias I mentioned in my opening remarks, and that’s a good thing. So wewe’re not looking to achieve a particular level of any asset price. What we want is investors to be pricing in risk like markets are supposed to do. Borrowers are borrowing. Lenders are lending. We want the markets to be working. And, again, we’re not looking toto a particular level. I think ourour principal focus, though, is onon the state of the economy and on the labor market and on inflation. Now, inflation, of course, isis low, and we think it’s very likely to remain low for some time, below our target. So, really, it’s about getting the labor market back and getting it in shape. That’sthat’s been our major focus. And I would say, you know, weif we were to hold back becausewe would never do this, butthe idea that, just the concept that we would hold back because we think asset prices are too highothers may not think so, but we just decided that that’s the casewhat would happen to those people? You know, what would happen to the people that we’re actually legally supposed to be serving? We’re supposed to be pursuing maximum employment and stable prices, and that’s what we’re pursuing. We’re also pursuing financial stability, but there you have a banking system that is so much better capitalized, so much stronger, better aware of its risks, better at managing its risks, more highly liquid. You have all of those things. And they’ve been lending. They’ve been taking in deposits. They’ve been a source of strength in this situation. So I would say that, you know, we’re tightly focused on our real economy goals. And and, again, notwe’re notwe’re not focused on moving asset prices in a particular direction at all. It’s just we want markets to be working, and I think, partly as a result of what we’ve done, theythey are working. And, you know, we hope that continues. Thank you very much.