Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on achieving our dualmandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of the American people. The economy is strong overall and has made significant progress toward our, our goals over the past two years. The labor market has cooled from its formerly overheated state and remains solid. Inflation has moved much closer to our 2 percent longerrun goal. We’re committed to maintaining our economy’s strength by supporting maximum employment and returning inflation to our 2 percent goal. To that end, today, the Federal Open Market Committee decided to take another step in reducing the degree of policy restraint by lowering our policy interest rate by ¼ percentage point. We also decided to continue to reduce our securities holdings. I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments. Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at aat a solid pace. GDP rose at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the third quarter, about the same pace as in the second quarter. Growth of consumer spending has remained resilient, and investment in equipment and intangibles has strengthened. In contrast, activity in the housing sector has been weak. Overall, improving supply conditions have supported the strong performance of the U.S. economy over the past year. In our Summary of Economic Projections, Committee participants generally expect GDP growth to remain solid, with a median projection of about 2 percent over the next few years. In the labor market, conditions remain solid. Payroll job gains have slowed from earlier in the year, averaging 173,000 per month over the past three months. The unemployment rate is higher than it was a year ago, but, at 4.2 percent in November, it has remained low. Nominal wage growth has eased over the past year, and the jobstoworkers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of indicators suggests that conditions in the labor market are now less tight than in 2019. The labor market is not a source of significant inflationary pressures. The median projection for the unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.2 percent at the end of this year and 4.3 percent over the next few years. Inflation has eased significantly over the past two years but remains somewhat elevated relative to our 2 percent longerrun goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in November, and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.8 percent. Longerterm inflation expectations appear to remain well anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters, as well as measures from financial markets. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.4 percent this year and 2.5 percent next year, somewhat higher than projected in September. Thereafter, the median projection falls to our 2 percent objective. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. We see the risks to achieving our employment and inflation goals as being roughly in balance, and we are attentive to the risks on both sides of our mandate. At today’s meeting, the Committee decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point, to 4¼4½ percent. We’ve been moving policy toward a more neutral setting in order to maintain the strength of the economy and the labor market while establishing further progress insorry, enabling further progress oninflation. With today’s action, we have lowered our policy rate by a full percentage point from its peak, and our policy stance is now significantly less restrictive. We can therefore be more cautious as we consider further adjustments to our policy rate. We know that reducing policy restraint too fast or too much could hinder progress on inflation. At the same time, reducing policy restraint too slowly or too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering the extent and timing of additional adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We’re not on any preset course. In our Summary of Economic Projections, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most likely scenario going forward. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.9 percent at the end of next year and 3.4 percent at the end of 2026. These median projections are somewhat higher than in September, consistent with the firmer inflation projection. These projections, however, are not a Committee plan or decision. As the economy evolves, monetary policy will adjust in order to best promote our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. If the economy remains strong and inflation does not continue to move sustainably toward 2 percent, we can dial back policy restraint more slowly. If the labor market were to weaken unexpectedly or inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated, we can ease policy more quickly. Policy is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. On a technical note: We lowered the offering rate on our overnight reverse repo facility to align it with the bottom of the target range for the federal funds rateits typical configuration. Technical adjustments of this kind have no bearing on the stance of monetary policy. The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy: maximum employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longerterm inflation expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximumemployment and pricestability goals. Thank you, and I look forward to your questions.

Well, so let, let me start by saying why wewhy we cut today and thenand then move to 2025. So I would say today was awas a closer call, but we decided it was the right call because we thought it was the best decision to foster achievement of both of our goals, maximum employment and price stability. We see the risks as twosided: moving too slowly and needlessly undermine economic activity and the labor market, or move too quickly and needlessly undermine our progress on inflation. So we’re trying to steer between those two risks, and, on balance, we decided to go ahead with a further cut. And I, I’ll give you some details on why. Downside risks to the labor market do appear to have diminished, but the labor market is now looser than prepandemic, and it’s clearly still cooling further, so far in, in a gradual and orderly way. We don’t think we need further cooling in the labor market to get inflation down to 2 percent. Job creation is now well below the level or certainly below the level that would hold unemployment constant, the jobfinding rate is low and declining, and other measuressuch as surveys of workers and businesses, quits, things like thatbroadly show a, a much cooler labor market than there was, than we had in 2019. It’s still quite gradually cooling. So we, we keep an eye on that. Inflation, we see that story as still broadly on track, and, and I’ll tell you why. We, we’ve made a great deal of progress. Twelvemonth core inflation, as I mentioned, through November is estimated at 2.8 percent, down from a high of 5.6 percent. Twelvebut 12month inflation has actually been moving sideways, as we are “lapping” very low readings of late last year. Housing services inflation actually is steadily coming down now, albeit at a slower pace than we might like, but it has now come down substantially and it is making progress, slower than hoped. And we, we’ve had recent high readings from nonmarket services and some bumpiness for goods. So I’ll just say, we, weso remember that we couple this decision today with the “extent and timing” language in the postmeeting statement that signals that we are at or near a point at which it will be appropriate to slow the pace of further adjustments. You ask about 2025. I, I think that the lowerthe slower pace of cuts for next year really reflects both the higher inflation readings we’ve had this year and the expectation that inflation will be higher. You saw in the SEP that risks and, and uncertainty around inflation we see as higher. Nonetheless, we, we see ourselves as, as still on track to continue to cut. I think the actual cuts that we make next year will not be because of anything we wrote down today. We’re, we’re going to react to data. That’s just the general sense of what the Committee thinks is likely to be appropriate.

So we’reto, to cut further after this point, I, I would say it this way: We’ve reduced our policy rate now by 100 basis points. We’re significantly closer to neutral. At 4.3 percent and “change,” we believe policy is still meaningfully restrictive. But as for additional cuts, we’re going to be looking for further progress on inflation as well as continued strength in the labor market. And as long as the economy and the labor market are solid, we can be cautious aboutas we consider further cuts. And all of that is reflectedto your questionin the December SEP, which shows a median forecast of down [to] two cuts next year, compared to four in September.

I, I’d sayI’d, I’d point to five or six things, and, and I’d startlet me start by saying that we think the economy’s in a really good place, and we think policy’s in a really good place. Let’s remember that the economy’s growing 2½ percent this year, that inflation has come down by 50 percent to, tofrom 5.6 percent to 2.6 percent. Headline inflation is 2.5 percent on a 12month basis. We’re actually in a really good starting place here. But since, you knowso, so what’s really driving the, the slower ratecut path? First thing is growth is stronger, right? We, the economy grew faster in the second half of 2024, so far, than we had expected and is expected to be above what our expectations in September next year as well. Unemployment is lower, and, you know, in the SEP, you’ll see that participants think that thethat the downside risks are less and uncertainty is less. And so that’s, that’s more strength, right? Inflation is higher, as we talked about. Inflation’s higher this year. It’s also higher in the forecast next year. I’d also point out that we’re, we’re closer to the neutral rate, which is another reason to be cautious about, about further moves. Andbut then getting to yourto your point, there’s also, there’s uncertaintyuncertainty around inflation, I pointed out, is actually higher. It’s alsoit’s also, in the case of some people, some peoplethe way I’d say it is this: Some economic effects of policies into their forecast at this meeting and said so in the meeting. Some people said they didn’t do so, and some people didn’t, didn’t say whether they did or not. So we have people making a bunch of different approaches to that. But some did identify policy uncertainty as one of the reasons for their, their writing down more uncertainty around inflation. And, you know, the point of that uncertainty is, it’s kind of commonsense thinking that when the path is uncertain you go a little bit slower. It’s not unlike driving on a foggy night or walking into a dark room full of furniture. You just slow down. And so that may have affected some of the people. But as, as I said, there’s a range ofrange of approaches on the Committee.

Actually, that’s not the only thing that’s happened. What’s happened is that our forecast for inflation for this year, I think, are fivetenths higher than they were in September. So, you’ve gotyou had two months of higher inflation, September and October. As I mentioned, November is, is back on track. But, you know, once again we’ve, you know, we’ve had a yearend projection for inflation and it’s kind of fallen apart as we’ve approached the end of the year. So that is certainly a large factor in people’s thinking. I can tell you that might be the single biggest factor is inflation has once again underperformed relative to expectations. It’s still, you know, going to be between 2½ and 3 [percent]. It’s way below where it was. But, you know, we really want to see progress on inflation, to, to, you know, as I mentioned, as we think about further cuts, we’re going to be looking for progress on inflation. We have been moving sideways on 12month inflation as the 12month window moves. That’s in part because inflation was very, very low measured in, in the 4th quarter of 2023. Nonetheless, as we go forward, we’re going to want to be seeing further progress on bringing inflation down and keeping a solid labor market.

So I do think that the 2018, the September 2018 Tealbook alternative simulations are a good place to start. I happened to have brought them here with me today. I’m sure you have them too. They’re, they’re a good starting point, and, and I would just say, you know, it’s sixyearsold analysis. But nonetheless, this is still, I think, I think the right, the right questions to ask. And, you know, there, there were two simulations: one wasone was “seeing through,” one was not. And I point you to, you’ll there’s some language in thein the “see through” paragraph. It says, you know, it considers situations in which it might be appropriate to “see through” inflation and then, and then names some conditions that in, in which it might not be. In any case, this is not a question that’s in front of us right now. We, we won’t face that questionwe don’t know when we’ll face that question. What the Committee’s doing now is, is discussing pathways and understanding, again, the ways in which tariffdriven inflation can affecttariffs can affect inflation and the economy, and, and how to think about that. So, we’re, we’rewe’ve done a bit of, good bit of work, all of us have, each of us has, and, you know, it puts us in position, when we finally do see what the, what the actual policies are, to be, to make, you know, a more, more careful, thoughtful assessment of what might be the appropriate policy response.

So the, the main thing isand this is also a point in these alternative simulationsis that there’re just many, many factors that go into what, whathow much tariffs will, will even go into consumer inflation. How persistent will that be? And, you know, so, we justwe just don’t know, really, very much at all about the actual policies, so it’s very premature to try to make any kind of conclusion. We don’t know what’ll be tariffed, from what countries, for how long, and what size. We don’t know whether there’ll be, you know, retaliatory tariffs. We don’t know what the, you know, the transmission of any of that will be into consumer prices. To yourto your point as well, I don’tI wouldn’t say that we know whether the last episode is or is not a good model for what happened. You pointed out we’ve just been through a period of high inflation. We’ve just gotten through that period. That’s a difference. It was also quite a bit of diversion of trade away from China to other countries, since that, that maythat may have affects. I don’t know. I just think we, we need to take our time, not rush, and make a very careful assessment, but only when we’ve actually seen what the policies are and how they’re implemented. And, you know, we’re justwe’re just not at that stage. We’re at the stage of doing what other forecasters are doingwhich is kind of thinking about these questions, but not, not trying to get to definitive answers for some time.

Let melet me find these numbers. So we havewe have inflation coming down, core inflation coming down to 2½ [percent] next year. That’s, that’d bethat’d be significant progress. You see a slower path. I think that does take on board that we want to see real progress. But we, we, you know, we’d be seeing meaningful progress to get inflation down to that level. That wouldn’t be all the way to 2 percent, but that would be, it would be, you know, better than this year. This year, [it] will be 2.8 or 2.9. That would be meaningful. We, we also have to think about the, the, you know, the labor market. And while we, we have the labor market forecast as being in good shape, we are also mindful that it is still out there very gradually cooling, so far in an orderly, gradual way. But it’s also something we need to keep our eye on.

So that’s, that’s not thethat’s not any decision that we’ve made at all. Let me explain “extent and timing.” So the, the sense of that wording is to make clear that if the economy does evolve about as anticipated, we’re at a point at which it would be appropriate to slow the pace of rate cuts. So “extent,” that just relates to how, how much further we can reduce our policy rate consistent with getting to a neutral stance. Clearly, that distance has shrunk by 100 basis points. So it’s significantly smaller. So that’s, that’s the “extent” question. And, again, we’re going to be looking for further progress on inflation, as well as a strong labor market, to make those cuts. “Timing” just suggests, again, that we’re at a place where we, we, assuming the economy develops as expected, we’re at or near a level that will make it appropriate to slow the pace of adjustments. So that, that’s what we mean by that. We’re not trying to make decisions about the longer run. You know, we are, we’re trying to make sensible policy as we go. And, you know, I just would emphasize the uncertainty, which is, it’s justit’s just a function of the fact that, that we expect significant policy changes. There’s nothing really unusual about that. I think we need to, we need to see what they are and see what the effects they will have. We’ll, we’ll have a much clearer picture, I think, you know, when that happens.

So the, the risks that yousorry, the rates that you talked about are, are really longerrun rates, and they’re affected, they are affected to some extent by Fed policy, but they’re also affected by many other things. And longer rates have actually gone up quite a bit since September, as, as you well know, and those are the things that drive, for example, mortgage rates more than shortterm rates do. So we look at that, but we look at all financial conditions, and then we look at what’s happening in the economy. So what we see happening in the economy, again, is, you know, most forecasters have been calling for a slowdown in growth for a very long time, and it keeps not happening. So we havewe’re now well into another year of growth. It looks like it might be 2½ percent. Third andsecond and third quarters were right about at the same level. So the U.S. economy is just performing very, very well. Substantially better than our global peer group. And I, Ithere’s no reason to think a downturn is, is any more likely than itthan it usually is. So, the outlook is pretty bright for our economy. We have to stay on task, though, and continue to have restrictive policies so that we can get inflation down to 2 percent. We’re also going to be looking out for the labor market. We want to keep the labor market pretty close to where it is. We’re pretty close to estimates of the, the natural rate of unemployment. Job creation is, is a little below the, the level that would keep it there but, nonetheless, close. And so that’s what our policy’s trying to achieve.

So confidence was our test for raising rates, and, you know, we’ve madelook, look at the broader suite: We’ve made just a great deal of progress. We’re, you know, we’re well into the 2’s in, in core inflation and around 2½ [percent]or even lower than that, we have beenfor headline inflation. So I, I would say I’m confident that inflation has come down a great deal, and I, I’m confident in the story about why it’s come down and why that portends well. And I’lland I’ll tell you why. You, again, you do see with housing services inflation, which is one that we’ve really worried, worried about, it really has come down now quite steadily, at a slower pace than we thought, you know, two years ago, but it’s nonetheless steadily coming down as, as market rents, you know, market rents start to equilibrate better with, you know, new leases that turn over. Not, not new tenants, but new leases. Market rents is new leases. So that, that’s happening; that process is ongoing pretty much as we expect. Goods inflation, which is another big piece of it, has returned right to the range where it was before the pandemic. Just for some months this year it kind of moved up in a bumpy way because of used cars and things like that. But we think, overall, that should generally be in the range it was in. Then that leaves nonhousing services, and marketbased nonhousing services are in, in good shape. It’s nonmarket services, and those arethose are services that are imputed rather than measured directly, and they, they don’t, we, we think they don’t really tell us much about the, you know, about tightness in the economy. They don’t really reflect that. I mean, a good example is financial services, which is really done off of asset prices, and that justso that, that’s how that inflation works. So the overall picture, the story of why inflation should be coming down, is still intact. In particular, the labor marketlook at the labor market. It’s, it is cooler by so many measures nowmodestly cooler than it was in 2019, a year when inflation was well under 2 percent. So it’s not a source of inflationary pressures. Not to say there aren’t regional and, and, you know, particular professions where labor is tight. But, overall, you’re not getting inflationary impulses of any significance from the labor market. So what’s the story? The story is still just, we’re unwinding from these large shocks that the economy got in 2021 and ’22 in, for example, housing services, and now also in, in insurance, in particular, where costs went up, and those are now being reflected later in housing insurance. It’s real inflation, but it doesn’t portend persistently high inflation. So we and most other forecasters still feel that we’re on track to, you know, to get down to 2 percent. It might take another year or two from here, but I, I’m confident that that’s the path we’re on. And, you know, our policy will do everything it can to assure that that is the case.

The, the unemployment rate has nowis now the same as it was in July: 4.2 percent. It’s moved up and down, but it’s now the same as July. And job creation is, is lower than it has been, but it’s beenit’s been steadyit’s notit’s not declining. It’s been steady at a level which, as I pointed out a couple times, is actually below the level that would hold the unemployment rate constant, but it’s not so far below. So, you mightyou mightif, if we have the, the breakeven level right, and if jobs continuejob creation continues at that level in the establishment survey, then you would get a tenth maybe every other month kind of thing. So gradually declining. But we don’t have that kind of precision in this. So, but you’re right, though, and I, I read out some of the reasons. We, we do think the labor market is still cooling by many measures, and we’re watching that closely. It’s, it’s not cooling in ain a quick or in a way that really raises concerns. I think, you know, you pointed out participants in the FOMC really thought that the risks and uncertainty had improved relative to the labor market. And it’s because of, because things have just gotten a little bit better, it doesn’tthe unemployment rate flat and things like that. Nonetheless, you know, we’re watching it closely.

So Iwhat I said is, we don’t think we need further softening to get to 2 percent inflation. That’s what I’m saying, not that it’s not welcome. We don’t need it, we don’t think. If, if you had a situation where inflation’s moving around by a tenth every few months, that’s, you know, we’d have to weigh that against the fact that inflation has in recent months been moving sideways in the 12month window. And so we’ve got to weigh them both, at this point. You know, for a while there we were only really focused mainly, mainly focused on, on inflation. We’ve now gotten to a place where, where the risks of the two are what we think are broadly, roughly in balance. And so that’s how we think about it.

We’re notwe’re not renaming the phaseyet. But we may get around to that. But, no, I, I would say we, we are, though, in, in a new phase in the process, as I said. So, and that’s just because we’ve reducedwe’ve reduced our policy rate by 100 basis points. We’re significantly closer to neutral. We still think where we are is meaningfully, meaningfully restrictive, and I think from this point forward, you know, it’s appropriate to move cautiously and look for progress on inflation. We’ve, you know, we’ve done a lot to support economic activity by cutting 100 basis points, and that’s a good thing. I, I think it wouldI support the decision, and, and I think it was the right decision to make. I think from now we are in a place where the risks really are in balance, and we need to see progress on inflation. And that’s, that’s how we’re thinking about it. So it is kind of a new thing. We moved pretty quickly to get to here, and I think going forward, obviously, we’re going to be moving slower, which is consistent with, with the SEP.

So we, yeah, we always try to be careful about not throwing out the numbers we don’t like, you know? It’s just a, an occupational hazard is, is to [say], “Look, those high months are wrong.” What about the low months? You know, we’ve got, we have a very low month, potentially, in November. You know, it’s estimated by many to be in the midteens for core PCE. So that could be idiosyncratically low. We try to lookwe try to look at not just a couple or three months. We shouldn’t haveour, our position shouldn’t change based on two or three months of good or bad data. We have a long string now of inflation coming down gradually over time. As I mentioned, 12month, I think it’s 12month headline’s 2½; 12month core is 2.8. That’s way better than we were. We still have some work to do, though, is how we’re looking at it. And we need policy to remain restrictive to, to getto get that work done, we think.

So we, we do look carefully at financial conditions, of course; that’s part of what we do. But, you know, we, we really look carefully at is the performance of our of our goal variables and, and how are we affecting the economy. So what we’ve seen over the course ofjust take the last year. We, we’ve seen inflationwell, over the last couple of yearscome down a lot. We’ve seen the labor market cool off quite a bit. That suggests that our policy is restrictive. We’ve, we can also look more directly at, at the parts of the economy that are affected bythat, that are interest sensitive, like particularly housing. Housing activity is, is very low, and that’s partly, significantly because of our policy. So we think our policy is working. It’s transmitting, and it’s having the effects on our goal variables that we would want. You know, a lot of things move financial conditions around, as you know, and we don’t really control those. But I’d say we, we see the effects we’re hoping to see on, on the goal variables and, and the places where we’d expect to see it.

So, you know, we, we’re not allowed to own Bitcoin. The Federal Reserve Act says what we can own, and we’re, we’re not looking for a, a law change. That’s the kind of thing for Congress to consider, but we are not looking for a law change at the Fed.

I think it’s pretty clear we’ve avoided a recession. I think growth we think is the best indicator of private demand, is looking to come in around 3 percent [real growth] this year. This is a really good number. Again, the U.S. economy has just been remarkable. And it’swhen we, in these international meetings that I attend, this has been the story, is that how well the U.S. is doing. And if you look around the world, there’s just a lot of slow growth and continued struggles with inflation. So I feelI feel very good about where the economy is and the performance of the economy, and we want to keep that going.

I don’t think so, no. I think, overall, if you look at it, primeage participation is still very high. What, what’s going on in the labor market is that the hiring rate is low. So if youif you have a job, you’re doing very well, and layoffs are very low, right? So people are not losing their jobs in large numbers, unusually large numbers. If you are looking for a job, though, the hiring rate is low, and that’s a signal of, of lower demand, and it has come down. So we look for signs like that, and that, that’s clearly a sign of softening, further softening. I didn’t mention it earlier, but I, I think you can see a, an ongoing gradual softening in the labor market. Again, not something we need to see to get 2 percent inflation. And, you know, that’s part of the reason that explains why we moved ahead today with, with our, with the action, with, with an additional cut. So, but you take a step back, the level of unemployment is very lowagain, participation is high. Wages are at a healthy and, and ever more sustainable levelwage growth. And so the labor marketthis is a good, a good labor market, and, you know, we want to keep it that way.

You know, we, we can’t know that with any tremendous certainty. I, I will say that we think that, that our policy balances the riskswe think the risks are roughly in balance as between the two mandates, and we think the labor market is, is in solid shape. And when I say it’s softening or cooling, it’s very gradual process. You know, job creations are, are meaningfully positive; wages are, you know, if anything, a little, still a bit above what would be sustainable if productivity were to revert to its longerrun trend. If you, if you take into account the high productivity readings we’ve had, then wages are already at a sustainable level relative to 2 percent inflation. So, again, I, I don’t want to overstate the downside in the labor market, because the downsides clearly appear to have diminished. Nonetheless, it’s, it’s one of our mandate goals, and, you know, we pay close attention to it, and it’s, it’s worth noting that it is still gradually coolinggradually and in an orderly way. And, and, you know, that’s, that’s how I would characterize it, and that’s why we’re paying careful attention.

You know, it, it breaks down into a long answer, if you want, but it just has been a little bit more stubborn. I think if you go back two or three years, many people were saying that to get this far down we would’ve had to have a, had a deep recession and, you know, high unemployment by now. Well, that has not been the case, so, you know, the, the path down has actually been much better than many predicted. We, we’ve managed to, to have the unemployment rate remain essentially at its longerrun natural rate, while inflation has come down fromyou know, core PCE inflation has come down from 5.6 percent to 2.8 percent on a 12month basis. So that’s, that’s a pretty good outcome. Why hasn’t it come down [more]? One reason is that, thatjust a technical issue around the way we calculate housing services, and that, that process has been slower thanmarket rents have, are showing up more slowly in that measure than we might have thought three, two, two years ago. So that’s part of it. I think there are other, other parts of the story, but, you know, the, thewhat, what I think people are feeling right now is the effect of high prices, not high inflation. So we, we understand very well that prices went up by a great deal, and people really feel that. And it’s prices of food and transportation and heating your home and things like that. So there’s tremendous pain in, in that burst of inflation that was very global. This was everywhere in all the advanced economies at the same time. So now we haveinflation itself is way down, but people are still feeling high prices, and that isthat is really what people are feeling. The best we can do for themand that’s who we work foris to get inflation back down to its target and keep it there so that people are earning, you know, big, real wage increases so that their, their wages are going up, their, their compensation is going up faster than inflation year upon year upon year. And that’s what will restore people’s good feeling about the economy. That’s what it will take, and that’s what we’re aiming for.

I feelI feel very good about where the economy is, and, honestly, I’m very optimistic about, about the economy, and it’swe’re, we’re in a really good place; our policy’s in a really good place. I, I expect another good year next year.

So I’ll say a couple things. First of all, when we, when we write the thing we write down in the Summary of Economic Projections is the longerrun neutral rate, which is the neutral rate at a time when supply and demand are in balance, the full economy’s in balance, and no shocks are hitting the economy. That is not where we are right now. So when we’re making monetary policy at the Fed, that’s not the question we’re asking. So you can’t do a straight read between those longerrun numbers that we write down and what we think the appropriate policy should be. So, basically, at any given time, various shocks are hitting the economy. And so what we’re doing in, in real time is we’re looking at our policy stance, and we’re looking at the way it’s hitting the economy, and, particularly, we look at the effects it’s having as we try to move the economy toward maximum employment and price stability. And the answer can be that there are things that affect the economy that arethat are lasting but not permanent. And the, the ones that are permanent are the ones that would be in r*. The ones that are, could be lasting, but, but nonetheless go away over time, they could actually affect what, what’s sort of technically the appropriate neutral stance in near term. So we’re looking at that, and, you know, we don’twe don’t know exactly where it is, but as I like to say, we know it by its works, and I think what, what we know for sure is that we’re 100 basis points closer to it right now. There are many estimates of where that might be, and we know we’re a lot closer to it, and I think we’re in a good place. But I think from here it’s a new phase, and we’re going to be, you know, cautious about, about further cuts.

Yeah, I mean, honestly, weyou know, there are countless models of whatof what a neutral rate might be at any given time. There, there are empirical models, there are theoretical models, there are things that combine them, and they have as many different answers as you’d like. So there is no real certainty. And, I mean, it’s, it’s actually a good thing to know that we don’t know exactly where it is, so you’re notyou’re not tempted to think, “Oh, I think this model or this estimate is right.” You, you just have to be open to, you know, the empirical data that are coming in and also how it’s affecting the outlook. And it’s not made any easier by the fact that, you know, that our policy works with long and variable lags. Nonetheless, that is the job we have, and so we’re, we’re I think we need it’s appropriate for usfor us now to proceed cautiously, now that we’re 100 basis points closer to, to neutral, and we’ll do so. Meanwhile, the economy seems to be in, in good shape, and these cuts will certainly help to support economic activity and the labor market while we can still make progress on inflation, because policy is still meaningfully restrictive.

So, and as, as I imagine you know, the, you know, the goal overall is headline inflation, because that’s what people experience. People don’t experience core inflation; they experience inflation, and that includes food and energy costs. So that’s the overall goal. But, as we know, headline inflation contains energy and food, and those prices can fluctuate for reasons that are not related to tightness in the economy and therefore are not really good predictors of future inflation. So it turns out that core inflation is, is a better predictor of overall inflation than overall inflation is. So we look at core inflation because it’s a better measure of what future inflation is like to be, likely to be, because it’s a better measure of, of what inflation pressures exist. So that’s, that’sit’s complicated, but ultimately, we, you know, our goal is headline, not core. So your question was, your second question was what?

So headline can be affectedyou’re talking about next year.

Yeah, so headline can, again, it can be affected by energy prices and food prices. So that, there, there will be things in, in the headline forecasts that are to do with forecasts of energy prices, whereas core will beif, if you look at core going out a full year, then it’ll be much more driven by things like tightness in the economy. So itthat, that’s why the two can go in different directions. Headline has been lower, as you know, most of this year, but that’s because energy prices have been coming down, which is a great thing for people. But energy prices will come down, and then they will go up, and it won’t really be telling us anything about how tight the economy is and how, how future inflation will perform.

So we, we monitor geopolitical risks really quickly, but, you know, butreally carefully, rather. But, you know, I would say so far those risks haven’t really nothing has come out of those risks that really, has really been important for the United States economy. The single thing that you would look to is the price of oil, given that we’re talking about the Middle East and Ukraine, and, you know, andbut that, that is a good summary statistic for the kind of thing that could go wrong in, in, with global turmoil. But the price of oil’s been coming down, and, for, because of supply conditions, global supply conditions. So we don’tthe U.S. is not feeling, really, the effects of geopolitical turmoil, but we are at, certainly, at a time of elevated geopolitical turmoil. And it remains, you know, a risk.

We’re talking aboutwhen you’re projecting the economy, you know, three years out, two years out, you’re talking about high uncertainty. Very high uncertainty. You know, we, we reallyat that point it, it’s not, it’s not possible to confidently predict where the economy is going to be in three years. So what we’re doing is we’re looking at what’s happening now. And we’re kind of projecting that the same kinds of things are happeningso we, we keep a strong labor market, housing services inflation comes down, goods and servicesgoods inflation settles down, and, you know, nonmarket services return to their, their prior level. All of those things should happen over time, and, and, you know, those pieces come together. There’s every reason to think that they will. The timing of it is highly uncertain. You know, but you’re not wrong, though, that, you know, we’ve, the it’s been a bit frustrating because thewhile we’ve made progress, it has been slower than we had hoped. Nonetheless, we’re still on track. And, you know, I think if you’dif two, two years ago, you’d said, “we were [going to be] at 4.2 percent unemployment and 2.8 percent inflation,” people would be, would say, “I’ll take that.” I mean, that, that’s a pretty good interim place to be. Job’s not done, but, but I think we’re, we’re feeling good about where we are and where we’re headed.

No, we’re not going to settle for that. I think we’re, we’re, you know, we certainly have every intention and expectations that we’ll get inflation back sustainably to 2 percent. That isand I am confident we will achieve that. It has taken longer, but it’s, you have to beyou know, we are making progress. We have made a great deal of progress. And we’ll continue to do so and get back to 2 percent inflation. That’s what we owe the public. And, and, you know, we’re committed to achieving it.

You don’t rule things completely in or out in thisin this world. That doesn’t appear to be a likely outcome. I think we’re at 4.3 percent. That’s, that’s meaningfully restrictive, and I, I think it’s a wellcalibrated rate for us to continue to make progress on inflation while, while keeping a, a strong labor market. SoThank you very much.