Good afternoon, and welcome. We decided today to lower the target for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to a range of 2 percent to 2¼ percent. The outlook for the U.S. economy remains favorable, and this action is designed to support that outlook. It is intended to insure against downside risks from weak global growth and trade policy uncertainty, to help offset the effects these factors are currently having on the economy, and to promote a faster return of inflation to our symmetric 2 percent objective. All of these objectives will support achievement of our overarching goal: to sustain the expansion, with a strong job market and inflation close to our objective, for the benefit of the American people. We also decided to conclude the runoff of our securities portfolio in August rather than in September, as previously planned. And I’ll discuss the thinking behind today’s interest rate reduction and then turn to the path forward. As the year began, both the economy and monetary policy were in a good place. The unemployment rate was below 4 percent, and inflation had been running near our 2 percent objective for nine months. Our interest rate target was at the low end of estimates of neutral. Over the first half of the year, the economy grew at a healthy pace and job gains pushed unemployment to near a half century low. Wages have been rising, particularly for lower paying jobs. People who live and work in low  and middle income communities tell us that many who have struggled to find work are now getting opportunities to add new and better chapters to their lives. This underscores for us the importance of sustaining the expansion so that the strong job market reaches more of those left behind. Through the course of the year, weak global growth, trade policy uncertainty, and muted inflation have prompted the FOMC to adjust its assessment of the appropriate path of interest rates. The Committee moved from expecting rate increases this year to a patient stance about any changes and then to today’s action. The median Committee participant’s assessments of the neutral rate of interest and the longer run normal rate of unemployment have also declined this year, reinforcing the case for a somewhat lower path for our policy rate. These changes in the anticipated path of interest rates have eased financial conditions and have supported the economy. At our June meeting, many Committee participants saw that the case for lowering the federal funds rate had strengthened, but the Committee wanted to get a better sense of the overall direction of events. Since then, we have seen both positive and negative developments. Job growth was strong in June and, looking through month to month fluctuations, the data point to continued strength. We expect job growth to be slower than last year but above what we believe is required to hold the unemployment rate steady. GDP growth in the second quarter came in close to expectations. Consumption  supported by rising incomes and high household confidence is the main engine driving the economy forward. But manufacturing output has declined for two consecutive quarters, and business fixed investment fell in the second quarter. Foreign growth has disappointed, particularly in manufacturing and notably in the euro area and China. In response to this weakness, many central banks around the world are increasing policy accommodation or contemplating doing so. After simmering early in the year, trade policy tensions nearly boiled over in May and June but now appear to have returned to a simmer. Looking through this variability, our business contacts tell us that the ongoing uncertainty is making some companies more cautious about their capital spending. The domestic inflation shortfall has continued. Core inflation, which excludes food and energy prices and is a better gauge of future developments than is total inflation, has run at 1.6 percent over the past 12 months. We continue to expect that inflation will return over time to 2 percent. But domestic inflation pressures remain muted, and global disinflationary pressures persist. Wages are rising, but not at a pace that would put much upward pressure on inflation. We are mindful that inflation’s return to 2 percent may be further delayed, and that continued below target inflation could lead to a worrisome and difficult to reverse downward slide in longer term expectations. So taking all of that on board, the Committee still sees a favorable baseline outlook. Over the year, however, incoming information on global growth, trade policy uncertainty, and muted inflation have led the Committee to gradually lower its assessments of the path of policy interest rate that would best support that outlook. Today, we judge that those factors warrant the policy adjustment I described: “As the Committee contemplates the future path of the target range for the federal funds rate, it will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion, with a strong labor market and inflation near its symmetric 2 percent objective.” Thank you. I am happy to take your questions.

So I think you have to look at not just the 25 basis point cut, but look at the Committee’s actions over the course of the year. As I noted in my opening statement, we started off expecting some rate increases, we moved to a patient setting for a few months, and now we’ve moved here. I think what you’ve seen over the course of the year is, as we’ve moved to a more accommodative policy, the economy has actually performed just about as expected with that gradually increasing support. And I think I wouldn’t take credit for all of that, but I do think that increasing policy support has kept the economy on track and kept the outlook favorable. In terms of the rest of your question, the Committee is really thinking of this as a way of adjusting policy to a somewhat more accommodative stance to further the three objectives that I mentioned: to insure against downside risks, to provide support to the economy, that those factors are where factors are pushing down on economic growth, and then to support inflation. So we do think it will serve all of those goals, but again, we’re thinking of it as essentially in the nature of a midcycle adjustment to policy.

So, you’re absolutely right. The the performance of the economy has been reasonably good. The position of the economy is as close to our objectives as it’s been in a long time, and the outlook is also good. What we’ve been monitoring since the beginning of the year is, effectively, downside risks to that outlook from weakening global growth, and we see that everywhere: weak manufacturing, weak global growth now, particularly in the European Union and China. In addition, we see trade policy developments, which at times have been disruptive and then have been less so, and also inflation running below target. So we see those as threats to what is clearly a favorable outlook, and we see this action as designed to support them and keep that outlook favorable. And, frankly, it is a continuation of what we’ve been doing all year to provide more support against those very same risks.

You know, I I really think it does, and I think the evidence of my eyes tells me that our policy does support it supports confidence, it supports economic activity, household and business confidence, and through channels that we understand. So it will lower borrowing costs. It will and it will work. And I think you see it. Since you know, since we noted our vigilance about the situation in June, you saw financial conditions move up, and you saw I won’t take credit for the whole recovery, but you saw financial conditions move up. You see confidence, which had troughed in June you saw it move back up. You see economic activity on a healthy basis. It just it seems to work through confidence channels as well as the mechanical channels that you are talking about.

So, yes. I mean, I think we of course, you know, what we do at every meeting, as I noted, is, we do a deep dive into U.S. economic activity and global activity and, certainly, carefully went through U.S. economic activity, which there has been some positive and some negative, but, overall, the U.S. economy has shown resilience during the intermeeting period. But, again, the the issue is more the downside risks and then the shortfall in inflation, and we’re trying to address those. So, in addition, going forward, I would say, we’re going to be monitoring those same things. We’ll be monitoring the evolution of trade uncertainty, of global growth, and of low inflation. And we’ll also, of course, be watching the performance of the U.S. economy. As I mentioned, it had shown some resilience here to those issues, and we’ll be putting all of that together, and that’s how we’ll be thinking about policy going forward.

Yes. So I gave three reasons for what we did, and that is to insure against downside risks to the outlook from weak global growth and trade tensions. So that is in a sense, that is a risk management point, and that is a bit of insurance. But we also feel like weak global growth and trade tensions are having an effect on the U.S. economy. You see it now in the second quarter: You see weak investment, you see weak manufacturing so support demand there and also to support return of inflation to 2 percent. But there’s definitely an insurance aspect of it. Trade is unusual. We don’t you know, the thing is, there isn’t a lot of experience in responding to global trade tensions. So it is a it’s something that we haven’t faced before and that we’re learning by doing. And it is not it’s not exactly the same as watching global growth, where you see growth weakening, you see central banks and governments responding with fiscal policy, and you see growth strengthening, and you see a business cycle. With trade tensions  which do seem to be having a significant effect on financial market conditions and on the economy they evolve in a different way, and we have to follow them. And, by the way, I want to be clear here. We play no role whatsoever in assessing or evaluating trade policies other than as as trade policy uncertainty has an effect on the U.S. economy in the short and medium term. We’re not in any way criticizing trade policy. That’s really not our job.

So I actually think different people have different different weightings has been my experience on those things. You mentioned lower r*, trade slowdown  and I would actually add, lower natural rate of unemployment too has moved down, all of which kind of point to more accommodation. So, again, I don’t think asking about a ¼ point is really the right question. I think you have to look back over the course of the year and see the Committee moving away from rate increases to a neutral posture to, now, a rate cut. So I think we’ve been providing and that affects the forward rate path, and it affects financial conditions, and financial conditions affect the economy. You see an economy which is actually performing pretty well. Growth in the first half of this year is about the same as it was in all of ’18 and actually a little better than our forecast for growth in 2019 at the end of 2019. So I think, in a way, that’s monetary policy working. And, again, I wouldn’t just look at the 25 basis point cut as the right question.

Yes. So we, as we noted we noted at the bottom of the statement that language, which really says how we’re thinking about it. So it says, as we’re contemplating the future path of the target range for the federal funds rate, we’ll continue to monitor the implications of incoming information and it talks about that language. So, you know, I can’t  all I can tell you is, we’ll be looking at weak global growth. We’ll be looking very carefully to see how that’s happening. And I think you see you learn every cycle you learn about these things. So we will see whether growth is picking up, whether it’s bottoming out. We’ll see that picture. We’ll also see on trade. You know, we’re going to be seeing I think we’ve learned a lot on trade in this cycle. I think we’ll continue to learn more, and on inflation we will. So, in addition, the U.S. economy itself is the performance of the U.S. economy will enter into that. So I would love to be more precise, but with trade, it is a factor that we have to assess in kind of a new way. Those are the things that we’ll be looking at, and you know, in making our decisions going forward.

Yes. So we don’t hear that from businesses. They don’t come in and say, “We’re not investing because, you know, the federal funds rate is too high.” I haven’t heard that from a business. What you hear is that demand is weak for their products. You see manufacturing being weak all over the world. Investment business investment is weak. And I wouldn’t lay all of that at the door of trade talks. I think there’s a there’s a global business cycle happening with manufacturing and investment, and that’s that’s been, you know, definitely a bigger factor than, certainly, we expected late last year. I think global global growth started to slow down in the middle of last year, but that has gone on to a greater extent. And, by the way, trade policy uncertainty has also been, I think, more elevated than we anticipated. In terms of, is this the we believe this is the right move for today, and we think it’s we think it will serve the three ends that I mentioned. And I’ve already gone over how we’re thinking about going forward.

Well, the sense of that is I mean, that refers back to other times when the FOMC has cut rates in the middle of a cycle. And I’m contrasting it there with the beginning for example, the beginning of a lengthy cutting cycle.

That is not that’s not what we’re seeing now. That’s not our perspective now or outlook.

You know, so our policy is will depend on the implications of incoming data for the economic outlook as well as evolving risks to that outlook. And so we’re going to be monitoring the implications of incoming information for the outlook, as I mentioned. And, so I that’s really where I would leave you with that.

Okay. So, on the first, I would say that I view the level of capital requirements and the level of capital in the system as being about right. I do agree with that. The idea that you’re talking about is one that’s that Vice Chair Quarles has talked about. It’s a it’s one under consideration. The idea being, in a sense, we’ve chosen, in the United States, to have high through the cycle capital requirements by doubling the SIFI surcharge, which is the surcharge that the largest banks have in their capital requirements. We’ve, in effect, already put in place substantial countercyclical buffers. And so, conceptually, you can think of I’m not saying it’s the same thing as a countercyclical capital buffer. So that’s that’s really the point is that we don’t rely our system doesn’t rely on our ability it doesn’t mainly rely on our ability to identify the right time in the cycle to trigger a countercyclical tool. We rely on through the cycle, always on high capital and liquidity requirements. And I think that’s a good thing to do. The idea of putting it in place so you can cut it, that’s something some other jurisdictions have done, and it’s worth considering. I think the United Kingdom, in particular, has a countercyclical capital buffer that’s always on, but the one point of it is that you can cut when there’s a downturn and therefore give the banks more room. So this isn’t something we’ve decided to do. It’s just under consideration. In terms of the real time payment system, your second question, so this is something we the United States is far behind other countries in terms of having real time payments available to the general public. The Fed, really, coming out of the Reserve System the Reserve Banks and the Board together convened all of the stakeholders around the table to talk about how we can move forward. This is consumer groups, technology companies, banks, card companies pretty much all of the groups who would be interested and worked on a project for several years. And one of the things that came out of that was a recommendation that the Fed should build a 24 x 7 x 365 real time settlement system to solve that problem to address that problem. We put out a proposal in October of last year about, you know, should we do this, and we got quite a lot of comments. They were overwhelmingly favorable. And I would point out that in our payment system, in many places, the Fed operates alongside private sector operators for example, in wholesale payments, in ACH, and in check so it wouldn’t be unusual or out of keeping with with how we’ve done things in the past. We have not made a decision on this, but it’s something we’re looking at carefully and something I do expect we’ll make a decision on soon.

So it is as I mentioned, it’s going to depend on the evolving data and the evolving risk picture. But as we look at the situation now and the outlook now, what we see is that it’s appropriate to make an adjustment in policy to a somewhat more accommodative stance. That’s what we’re seeing. And that’s what we’re going to be looking you know, we’ll be looking at incoming data, at all of the at the risks that I mentioned, and the performance of the U.S. economy, and at low inflation. We’ll be looking at that to make our decisions going forward.

Well, I think the best thing for people who are who are feeling that and we are getting lots of feedback from people who work and live in low  and moderate  income communities to the effect that they’re now feeling the recovery, and, in fact, they haven’t felt a better labor market in anybody’s memory, so this is great to hear. And I guess my view is, the best thing we can do for those people is to sustain the expansion, keep it going, and that’s one of the overarching goals of of this move and all of our policy moves. There really is no reason why the expansion can’t keep going. Inflation is not troublingly high. If you look at the at the

So I gave my my reasons for our reasons, really for doing this. And, you know, just to touch on that again, this action is designed to insure against downside risks to the outlook from weak global growth and trade tensions, offset the negative effect that those factors are already having, and promote a faster return of inflation to 2 percent. That’s what we’ve been talking about all year long, and we’ve gradually moved our policy in the direction of more accommodation. I think what you see is an economy that has reacted well to that. So that’s what we’re doing, and that’s why we’re doing it. We never take into account political considerations. There’s no place in our discussions for that. We also don’t conduct monetary policy in order to prove our independence. We conduct monetary policy in order to to move as close as possible to our statutory goals, and that’s what we’re always going to do. We’re always going to use our tools that way. And then, at the end, we’ll you know, we’ll live with the results. In terms of the balance sheet, that was really just a matter of simplicity and consistency. Really nothing more to it than that.

Yes. So, first, let me say I’ll just speak for myself, but I understand those concerns very well. I do. I’ve you know, I’ve studied them, I’ve spoken about them, and I take them very seriously. But as I look at today’s situation, I don’t see them as a reason not to take this action today. I just don’t think that would be my point. And one of the reasons why I think that is, if you look if you look so we have a financial stability framework now for the first time. Before the crisis, we didn’t have this, but now we have it, and we publish it. And we look at, really, four big things so that we know we can you know, the public can hold us accountable and compare us meeting to meeting, and you know, and see whether we got this right, because it’s transparent now. But the four things we look at are valuation pressures. And we do see notable valuation pressures in some markets but, you know, honestly, not at a highly troubling level. In terms of household borrowing, household and business borrowing is the second thing. Households are in a very good shape overall. I’ll come back to business borrowing. Leverage in the financial system is low, and funding risk is low. So, overall, staff’s view has been and my view has been that if you look overall, financial stability vulnerabilities are moderate. The place that gets all the attention right now a lot of attention is business borrowing, and we look very carefully at that. What’s happening with business borrowing is, the loans have moved off the balance sheets of the banks and into market based vehicles, which tend to be stably funded. But, nonetheless, it’s clear that the highly leveraged business sector could act as an amplifier to a downturn. So we’re watching that very carefully. But, again, I think if you look overall at the U.S. financial system, what you see is a high level of resilience much higher than it was before the crisis and that’s something to take comfort from. And I think all of that gives us the ability to use monetary policy for its purposes and rely on supervisory and regulatory tools to you know, to keep the financial system resilient.

There are very few things that I don’t worry about at all. So, of course, of course, we monitor. We have every quarter we have an extensive briefing on financial stability, and we had that yesterday. So we look at this on an ongoing basis. We have a great team. We liaise with central banks around the world. You know, one of my colleagues is the head of the Financial Stability Board globally, so we’re very, very much monitoring these things all the time. And we worry about them all the time. We’re always looking at the we’re looking for that thing that we may have missed a lot of the time. But the things we haven’t missed, I think they paint a mixed picture, but not one that should prevent us from taking monetary policy actions that we think are appropriate to support the economy.

No. Let me be clear. What I said was, it’s not it’s not the beginning of a long series of rate cuts. I didn’t I didn’t say it’s just one or anything like that. What I said is, when you think about rate cutting cycles, they go on for a long time, and the Committee is not seeing that not seeing us in that place. You would do that if you saw real economic weakness and you thought that the federal funds rate needed to be cut a lot. That’s not what we’re seeing. That’s not what we’re seeing. What we’re seeing is that it’s appropriate to to adjust policy to a somewhat more accommodative stance over time, and that’s how we’re looking at it. What I said was, it’s not a long cutting cycle in other words, referring to what we do when there’s a recession or a very severe downturn. That’s that’s really what I was ruling out. I think, if you look back at other midcycle adjustments, you’ll see you know, I don’t know that they’ll be, in the end, comparable or not, but you’ll see examples of these.

So, you know, I wouldn’t bring it down to any one trade thing or any one factor. I think we look at a broad range of factors, and trade uncertainty trade policy uncertainty is one of them. That certainly includes the discussions with China, but I wouldn’t I wouldn’t be able to tell you how much of it is due to that. And without knowing you know, I think we with trade, we have to react to the developments, and we don’t know what they’ll be, and so it’s hard to exactly say. Certainly, we’ve seen, though, that when there’s a sharp confrontation between two large economies, you can see effects on business confidence pretty quickly and on financial markets pretty quickly. We saw that in June. But then we saw them unwind after that, to some extent. You’ve seen it returning to to a much lower temperature, I think. Again, with with trade policy, we’re just going to be watching and trying to assess the implications for the for the U.S. outlook.

You know, the mechanical effects of the tariffs are quite small. They’re not large as it relates to the U.S. economy. The real question is, what are the effects on the economy through the through the confidence channel business confidence channel? And, again, very, very hard to tease that out. I’ve seen some research, which you know, which says that they are meaningful meaningful effects on on output. That’s to say, not trivial. And I think that that sounds right, but it’s quite hard to get there is no way to get an accurate measure. You have to look at a range of estimates, and I think businesses will tell you that it’s a factor, particularly businesses that have manufacturing businesses that have supply chains that cross international borders will all tell you that it’s been a challenge. Many of them have made adjustments, and they’ve gotten to a place where it’s okay, but it’s it’s been a challenge.

You know, you’re right. There’s a range of views on the Committee, and but the Committee is unified, completely unified on our dedication to making the best policy decisions that we can make. And that means people have a responsibility to do their best thinking and to present that thinking, and I wouldn’t have it any other way. In terms of the way forward, we will be monitoring the factors that I mentioned, and we laid that out in the you know, in the postmeeting statement, and that’s the roadmap we’re going to be following going forward. We’re going to be data dependent. We’re going to be, as we always are, doing what we need to do what we believe we need to do to support the economic expansion.

So the problems at Wells Fargo that arose at Wells Fargo around risk management and consumer the way they dealt with the consumer were actually pretty deep, and I think the company realizes that. And they’re not going to be fixed they haven’t been fixed quickly, and, frankly, we didn’t expect them to be fixed quickly. So they’re you know, they they will be under the growth cap, our enforcement action, until the Board votes to lift it, and that’s not something we’re considering doing right now. And the Committee I mean, the company is working away to address these issues, but, as I said, they’re deep seated issues, and it just takes time to address them. I wouldn’t comment on the CEO question. I don’t really have anything for you on that.

I’m not going to characterize it. You know I mean, I have characterized it. We have we have an enforcement action in place. The company is working away at addressing it. They take it seriously. I think they do see it as we do, as something that has to go deep. And, you know, we’ll lift the growth cap when we’re satisfied.

You know, the premise is not I will question your premise for a second. If you remember whether again, one of the purposes of our of our cut today is to support the expansion. And we don’t know when and if it really works if that works very well and the economy gets going again, you know, you don’t know where the where the funds, in other cycles and I don’t know whether this will happen or not, but in other cycles, the Fed wound up raising rates again after a midcycle adjustment. Again, I’m not predicting that, but I don’t think that we know that we won’t have that we’ll have less ammo because of these things. That’s one thing. So 

Well, but you’re assuming that we would never raise rates again, that once we’ve cut these rates that they can never go back up again. Just as a matter of principle, I don’t think that’s right. In other in other long, long cycles, long U.S. business cycles have sometimes involved this kind of event where the Fed will stop hiking in fact, will cut and then will go back to hiking. Again, I don’t know whether that’ll happen right here. It doesn’t seem it doesn’t seem like something that’s in you know, particularly likely, frankly, but we don’t know that. And the other thing is, I think by extending the cycle, you you do have a lot of benefits from that. And I think, you know, we will use the tools that we have. A couple of rate hikes one way or the other isn’t going to matter so much if there is a downturn. And you’re right, there will eventually be one. We’ll use all of our tools aggressively, as we need to, when that time comes.

So the monetary policy review is really for it’s really there to look at the way we make policy in the longer run. It’s not something that enters directly into our discussions today. We’ve had so far we’ve had a series of meetings, called Fed Listens, at almost all the Reserve Banks. Soon it will be all the Reserve Banks. And we meet there with the constituencies that we serve, and they’ve been very, very successful, hearing from people not just not just economists, but people who are not economists, how how their lives interact with the Fed’s work. It’s been it’s been great. I’ve got to say, it’s been even better than I hoped it would be. We’re just now beginning the process of incorporating all of that feedback, and we’re going to be having a series of meetings, beginning today and yesterday, as we evaluate, you know, the questions that we’re asking about our framework. So it’s very early to say where that’s going, but, you know, we’re setting the table now and looking at what our framework is and looking at how it’s performed, looking at how all frameworks performed around the world during the Global Financial Crisis. I expect we’ll be at this a while. I’m very excited about it. I think it’s been a good exercise. I think it’s opened us up to sunlight and perspectives that we might not have gotten otherwise. And I think it’s a good time. You know, you have 10 years after the crisis, you’re really living in a new normal for the economy and monetary policy, and it’s a really good time to step back and ask whether there are some things that we can do to improve our framework.

So I think this was this was well telegraphed. What we did today was was very consistent with what we had said we were going to do. I had mentioned the reasons for it. They’ve been well telegraphed, and I think you know, I think they will they will achieve their goals. We do know that monetary policy works through communications and then actions that are consistent with those communications, and we think that the changes that we’ve made this year have really worked. Of course, we always retain the flexibility to adjust our communications and our actions to in light of incoming data and the evolving risk picture, but I’ll leave it there.

Yeah, so again, I see the U.S. outlook as being a positive one. And we do we have had these global, really, risks to the outlook. There really there really is nothing in the U.S. economy that presents a you know, a prominent near term threat to the U.S. economy. As I mentioned, there’s no there’s no segment that’s really or sector that’s really boiling over and overheating. Nothing like that. It’s it’s within within the economy. It’s  it’s healthy, so I would say that. Downside risks are really coming from abroad. And, of course, we are concerned about about low inflation. But and, by the way, those risks from abroad are affecting the manufacturing sector here and business investment fixed investment. So  thank you.