March 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 1 of 7Transcript of Chair Powell’s Press Conference March3,2020  CHAIR POWELL.  Earlier today the FederalOpen Market Committee announced a½ percentage pointreduction in the target rangefor the federal funds rate, bringing that rangeto 1 to 1¼ percent.  My colleagues and I took this action to help the U.S. economy keep strong in the face of new risksto the economic outlook. The fundamentals of the U.S. economy remain strong. The unemployment rate has been near half-century lowsfor well more than ayear, the pace of job gains hasbeen solid, and wages have been rising.  These strong labor market conditions have underpinned solid household spending, whichhas been the key driverofeconomic growth over thepast year. At the time of our FOMC meeting in January, prospectsfor continued economic growth remained favorable, and we judged that monetary policy was well positioned to support that outlook. Since then, the spread of the coronavirus has broughtnew challenges andrisks.  The virus has afflicted many communities around the world, and our thoughtsand prayers go out to those who’vebeen harmed.  The outbreakhas alsodisrupted economic activityin many countries andhas prompted significant movementsin financial markets. The virus and the measuresthat are being taken to contain it will surelyweigh on economicactivity bothhere and abroad for some time.  We are beginning to see the effects on the tourism andtravel industries, and we are hearing concerns from industriesthat rely on global supply chains.  The magnitude and persistence of the overalleffects onthe economy, however, remain highly uncertain,and thesituation remains a fluid one. Against this background, the Committee judged that the risks to the U.S. outlookhave changed materially.  In response, we have eased the stance of monetary policyto provide some more support to the economy.  Ofcourse, the ultimate solutions to this challenge will come from March 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 2 of 7others, particularly health professionals.  We can andwill do ourpart, however,to keep theU.S. economy strong as we meet this challenge.  As always, our actions are guided by our congressional mandate topromote maximumemployment and price stability.In the weeks and months ahead, we willcontinue toclosely monitor developments and their implications for the economic outlook, and we willuse our tools and act as appropriate to support the economy. Thank you, and I’ll be happy to take a few questions. NICKTIMIRAOS.  Thank you. Nick Timiraos with theWall StreetJournal.  Two questions.  First, what changed between last week, when many of your colleagues seemed to indicate it was still too soon to tell howthis mightinfluence the outlook—what changed between last week andtoday? And then, how muchconfidence do youhave that there will be a quick and relatively complete recovery of economic activity after the peak of this virus has passed? CHAIR POWELL.  So, what changed?  Of course, we’ve been carefully monitoring the situation since itfirst became known and waiting to see how it would evolve.  And I think we’ve cometo the view now that this—that it is time for us to act in support of theeconomy.  And once youreachthatdecision,wedecidedtogoahead.Sowhatchanged,really,was,Iwouldsay,overthe course of the last couple weeks, we’veseen abroader spread of the virus—we’ve seenit begintospreadabithereintheUnitedStates.But,forus,whatreallymatters,ofcourse,isnotthe epidemiology, but the risk to theeconomy.  So we saw a risk to the outlook for the economy andchosetoact.Intermsofmyconfidencethatwewillreturnto—whatwasyourquestion?Was that a question? NICKTIMIRAOS.Howdoyouexpectthisto—theeconomytorecoverfromthis?Doyou see it as a persistent decline in activity or something thatwill berelatively temporary andshortlived?March 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 3 of 7CHAIR POWELL.  I don’t think anybody knowshow longit will be.  I do know thatthe U.S. economy is strong, and wewill get to the other side of this.  And I fullyexpect it will return to solid growth and a solid labor market as well. JIM TANKERSLEY.  Hi, Mr. Chairman.  Jim Tankersley, New York Times.  You said that “the ultimate solutions” will come from others, and I have two questionsabout that. First, is this a coordinated—part of acoordinated action with othercentral banks,and should we be expecting to see more as part of that?  And, second, what would you like to see from American fiscal policymakers in response to these new threats? CHAIR POWELL.  Okay.  So, first question.  We—we’re in active discussions with central banks around the world onan ongoingbasis, as you wouldguess.  I’ve been inregularcontact with central bankleaders from around the world.  That will continue.  Central banks are doingwhat makes sense intheir particular institutional contexts, but we’re all talking to each other on an ongoing basis.  And our action today represents what we think is the right policy for us inour particular institutional context under our domestic mandate.  You saw this morning’s G-7statementoffinanceministersandgovernors,andIthinkthatstatementdoesreflectcoordination at a high level in the form of a commitment to use all availabletools, including health-carepolicy,fiscalpolicy,andmonetarypolicyas“appropriate.”So, in terms of fiscal policy, again, not our role.  We have—we have afull plate with monetarypolicy.Notourroletogiveadvicetothefiscalpolicymakers,butyousawthementionin the G-7 statement—as “appropriate” as well. HEATHERSCOTT.TheG-7—HeatherScottwithAFP.TheG-7statementseemedtoindicate that—I’m sorry.  I was away from the mic.  Sorry, Heather Scott with AFP. The G-7 statementseemedtoindicatethat—thatpolicymakerswouldusetoolsbutwerenotgoingtodoMarch 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 4 of 7anything imminent. Does this contradict that, or is this in keeping with the action—thestatement bythe G-7this morning?  And, can I ask, what would cause you to make—take another step?  What would you be looking for, in terms of the economic outlook or data? CHAIR POWELL.  So the sense of the G-7,you know, is to—we haveseven countries, obviously,and different policies, different situations, different mandates—a lot of overlap.  And the sense of that is to get together as a group and say at ahigh level that “These arethe things we’regoing to do.  We are going to use our tools—all of our tools in a strong way to—to try to support the economy.”  So that’s a statement of general support.  I thinkwithin that you will see actions.  You’ve seen our action.  AndI think it’s up to individualcountries—individual fiscal policies and individual central banks—to do what they’re going to do.  I would think itwill be—it’s possible there will be some more—more formal considered coordination as wemove forward. In terms of—in terms ofmoving forward, Iwould say thatwe do like our currentpolicy stance.  We think—we think it’s appropriate to—to supportachievement of our dual-mandate goals.ButasIsaidinmy—inmystatement,we’repreparedtouseourtools—toolsandactappropriately, depending on theflow of events. HEATHERSCOTT.Butanythingyou’llbeparticularlywatchingthatwouldchange that? CHAIRPOWELL.Ican’tpointtoanyonething.It’salwaysarangeofthings.HEATHER LONG.  Heather Long from the Washington Post.  There’s been some rising concernaboutcreditmarketsandpossibleinsolvenciesanddefaultseitherfrombusinessesorindividuals from the coronavirus.  Canyou speakto—is the FOMCtalking about this? Arewe March 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 5 of 7likelyto see any emergencyprovisions from theCRA activated or things that you normally do during, you know, a hurricane or thattype of disruption to the economy? CHAIR POWELL.  So we don’t—wedon’t see any of that happening yet.  Of course, we are—we are thinking about what wecan do shouldthose things happen.  There’s no evidence of ityet. The economycontinues toperform well—perform well.  As Imentioned,we do hearconcerns, particularly from those most directly exposed, but there’s nothing in that nature:  Financial markets are functioning in an orderly mannerand all that sortofthing. I think when it—when it comes to those sorts of issues, though, we will be—the supervisors willbe working with banks to assure that they work with their—with their borrowers and that sortofthing.  So I can imagine usdoing those sorts of things, but it’s—those things are notupon us atthe moment.BRENDAN GREELEY.  Thank you.  Brendan Greeley, Financial Times.  Has the Committee discussed any other monetary policy tools, in addition to ratecuts, and the pacing and timing of when they might be appropriate? CHAIR POWELL.  Well, as youknow, we’re in the middle of a reviewof all of our tools.Soifyougobackafewmeetings,we’vetalkedaboutwhatourtoolkitis,andwe’veputthat in the minutes. But in the current context,no.  Whatwe discussed is the current stance of policy,isitappropriate—cametotheviewthatitwasappropriatetomakeachangeandwentahead and did that today. RICHMILLER.Hi.RichMillerwithBloomberg.Thankyouverymuchforhavingapress conference.  Can you take us a little—through the reasoning behind therate cut a little bit moreindepth?Youknow,wasthereadiscuss—someeconomistssaythisisasupply-sideshock, you know, rate cuts are not particularly suitable for this.  Others say, well, the supply March 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 6 of 7shock may morph into a demand shock.  I wonderif you couldjust give us a little bit more depth onthe reasoning behind the rate cut.  Thank you. CHAIR POWELL.  Sure, I’d be glad to. So the virus outbreak is something that will require a multifaceted response.  And that response will come, in the first instance, from health-care professionals and health policy experts.  It willalso come from fiscalauthorities should they determine that a response is appropriate.  And it would be—come from manyother public- and private-sector actors:  businesses, schools, state and local governments. But there’salso a rolefor monetary policy.  Monetary policy can be an effective tool to support overall economic activity.  We do recognize that a rate cut will not reduce the rate of infection.  It won’t fix a broken supply chain.  We getthat.  Wedon’t think we have allthe answers.  But we do believe that our action will provide a meaningful boost to the economy.  More specifically, it will support accommodative financial conditions andavoid a tightening of financial conditions which can weigh on activity, and it will help boost household and business confidence. That’s why you’re seeing central banks aroundthe world responding as they see appropriate in their particularinstitutionalcontext.YLAN MUI.  Thanks.  YlanMuifrom CNBC.  Canyou tellus what you would do if the virusendsupbeingcontainedfairlyquickly?WouldyouenvisiontheFedactuallyraisingratesin short order if the economic damage doesn’t occur theway that you potentially fear? And I haveasecondquestion,whichis,PresidentTrumpwasjusttweetingaboutyouthismorningandtalking about the Fed’s need tocut rates.  Did you feel any political pressure to make this move? CHAIRPOWELL.So,onyourfirstquestion,we’realwaysgoingtosetmonetarypolicyat a given time in a way that we think best serves our dual-mandate goals, and it’s as simple as that.So,youknow,we’ll—ifwegettoaplacewherewethinkit’sanappropriatetimetochangeMarch 3, 2020  Chair Powell’s Press Conference  FINAL
Page 7 of 7the stance of monetary policy, we won’t hesitate to do that.  I would also say thatit’s—it’s very important thatpeople understand that we will always makeour decisions based on the best thinking we have, based on our—what we learned fromour outreachto businesses, nonprofits,educational institutions that we get every cycle through the Reserve Banks,and the best analysis, the best research.  We’re always going to make our decisions in the interests of the American people to carryforward and try to achievethe mandates that Congress hasgiven us.  Andwe’re never going to consider any politicalconsiderations whatsoever.  We will not do that, and it’s very importantthat the public understand that. CHRISTOPHER RUGABER. Chris Rugaber, Associated Press.  I know—you mentioned a little bit of outreach.  Some of the Fed Bank presidentswere talking about last week howmuch they weregoing to listen to theircontacts.  Have you gotten reports sort of from theground from your business contacts, nonprofits, and so forth that have affected your decisionmaking?  Whatare—what are you hearingfrom all those folks?  Thank you. CHAIR POWELL. So we’re—we are hearing—I would just say, the effectsare at a veryearlystage.Butyouarehearingconcernsfrompeople—forexample,inthetravelbusinessor the hotelbusinessand things like that.  That’s—that’s what you are hearing.  But you don’t seethingsshowingupinactualdata.Youdoseethemshowingupin,sortof,sentimentforecastindicators and things likethat.  We expect that will continue.  It willprobably grow. And that’s oneofthereasonswhywe’vecometotheviewthatitwouldbeappropriateforustodaytomoveto support the economy.  And that’s what we’ve done.  Thanks very much. 